Last topic of this week is, fur display. And the work we present here is titled, Graffiti Fur,
Turning Your Carpet into Computer Display. So, in special reason here,
if you have a carpet or fur, using your finger you trace a line. So, this is our inspiration and
we take this. The phenomenon on the display device. So let me show you a video. Oh yeah, here is the inspiration. You can trace a line in a fur with your
finger, and you can quickly erase it. And then we developed
a computational devices to do this. So, what is a Roller Type Device? So this one consist of lots
of servomotors, moving, driving the rod, to raise the fur. So, as the roller device roll along
the surface, then it rotates. On the Rotary Encoder it takes a rotation,
and then moves pins up and down. So if these rods or pins are down,
it raise [INAUDIBLE]. So as you drag it moves down, up and
down and then leaves a pattern and then you can create a pattern
using pixel painting or. Combines them from your photograph and
others. And so,
in order to paint with multiple nodes, then we provide a mark, tick mark here so you can easily align multiple
traces using this tick mark. And here is an example of drawing
a large pattern, on large carpet. So, the user prepares
a bitmap image before hand, and then it's data to like
this handheld device. So this is an interesting example
of cooperative fabrication, of cooperative action with human and
robot system. So user is also doing something but also robot also doing something
together with the user. And another device we developed
is the Pen Type Device. So, this is a continuously rotating wheel. And this wheel, with rubber,
the rubber wheel raises the fur. And the important thing is that, when you,
you are using your finger, you can draw a line in one direction, but you cannot
draw a line in the opposite direction. So this can be inconvenient, inconvenient
if you draw arbitrary illustrations. But here,
the fan tip is always raising the fur. So this we implemented orientation
sensor inside of a pen. So, regardless of your pen orientation,
the system automatically rotates the pen tip so
that it can continuously raises the fur. So as you see, as the pen is rotating, but the pen tip stays the same orientation,
as is. So, in whichever direction you move,
you can always traces line, leaves a line. Which is difficult with finger. So you can draw arbitrarily
pattern using this pen device. You can also fix the pattern
by spraying this way, and then you get more robust shape. So here's couple of examples,
carpet drawing. Playing along, a message. Yeah, that's easy. So let me briefly
describe what's going on. Kind of obvious, but So, in the flattened
fur, the lighting comes in and then, reflected by the fur surface. However, if the strands are raised, then incoming light does
not be reflected a lot. So our raised and fattened furs, show
different reflectance property, you know? And in gra, in graphics, this kind of
reflective property is modeled as, the BRDF,
a bi-directional Distribution Function. So it defines the amount of lighting, depending on the incoming light orient
direction, and outgoing light direction. So this is actual measurement
from our fur, fur material. So you see blue dots representing
the data from the flattened surface, and the red dots represent the raised surface. And if you like,
take a look at this example, you know. The if light is coming from here, and then
if you observe it from this direction, then, if it's a, on the flattened surface,
it reflects a lot, so you say this bright. But in the raised fur,
then light go inside over the fur, so you do not reflection,
you do not see much reflection. So, I'll, in the result,
these are see bright, bright pattern in the flattened si, region, and
you see dark texture in the raised region. And then if you, light is,
come from tro, front, then not so different viewed in this direction. But still see a contrast from,
viewed from this direction. Interesting happens here. So if the light is from this direction,
so light is this direction. So if you view from here the same thing,
a flattened surface looks bright. And a raised surface looks dark. Up here if you. Light is coming in from this direction and
observed from the similar direction, then actually raised region looks brighter
and the flat region looks darker. So there is a,
a reverse result is observed. So, this is a example of
a bi-directional Distribution Function, and this is often used in computer
graphics to synthesize realistic images. And if you want to know more, this is a
good example document describing the idea. So to learn more, is original who
one is available as Graffiti Fur, Turning Your Carpet into a Computer
Display at SIGGRAPH 2014 e-tech, emerging technologies. And so this project is a good
example of cooperative fabrication. The user does the main action,
but the system, robotic system, also works together to
take care of the details. And we got inspirate,
inspiration from these two works. The Y is positioned correcting tools for
2D digital fabrication. The user is moving along
the cutting device. And then that system or robotic system
adjusts the actual position of the blades so that you can get detailed shape
using these hand-held cutting machines. And they also are otherwise 3D
freehand digital sculpting. So the system using hand-held. A meeting device, and
the user moving along. But, the position of this
device is observed or tracked, and it will automatically turn on
and turn off depending on the position. So the user just randomly moving
the pen tip, but you eventually, you get very precise sculpture. so, also this graphic Fire Walk is
also related to Physical Displays. So instead of using
Electronic Standard Displays. A couple of systems tries to you know, present information using
physical materials. And there are many works, but
interesting ones is a wooden Mirror, so there's lots of wooden pieces
with rotating devices, and then it reflects your face
in front of the mirror. And also,
we also presented a Shader printer, so this one prints a pattern
remotely on a closed surface. And the pattern stays after the printing. So this is kind of re-writable
the re-writable display on the clothes material. So that's it and this week we
discuss real world interaction. So user interface for, with computing
systems that work in the real world. And we introduce command card interfaces,
style by demonstration for teaching interactive rote behavior, and
actuated puppet device for controlling character postures, and then robotic
light system with painting interface. And also fur display so
that is for this week.