[MUSIC] Now that we know what data are, in this unit, we will familiarize ourselves with
the meaning of data management, its importance, who is involved, and where
it fits within the research life cycle. By the end of this lesson, you will
be able to define data management. The term gets tossed around quite a bit in
both professional and researcher circles. And having a clear concept of
what data management entails will be especially important as
you move forward with this MOOC. You will also understand
the importance of managing data as a part of responsible research
conduct and the roles and responsibilities of stakeholders
in data management. And last, but not least,
you will be able to identify the various data management tasks
within the research lifecycle. So what exactly is data management? Data management refers to activities and practices that support long term
preservation, access, and use of data. The activities surrounding data management
can include planning, documenting data, formatting data, storing data,
anonymizing data, and controlling access to data. So why is it important to manage data? Data management helps
researchers do better research. It helps researchers optimize use of data during the active phase
of the research project. And helps them collaborate
with other researchers. To use an analogy,
let's think of doing our taxes. If you manage your receipts
effectively during the year, doing your taxes is easier in April, and you're more likely to
maximize your deductions and get your taxes in on time without panic. The same goes for data management. If you have a plan and follow it,
it is time well spent and it will simplify your life later on. Data management also ensures
that data is preserved for future researchers to discover,
interpret, and reuse. Further, it sustains the value of data. When a research project has been
completed, the data could be used to answer additional questions not
considered during the original project. You, the researcher, may also want to extend the study over
time to do longitudinal comparisons. This is very difficult, if not impossible, if you have not
effectively managed your data. And last but not least, today
a growing number of funding agencies, journal publishers, and research
institutions require data management. These entities are demanding more
transparency in research projects, and data management is one way
projects can meet this requirement. Funders also often want to increase
their return on investment by ensuring the data that is produced
from a project is available for secondary analysis, replication,
or reuse for future innovations. [MUSIC]