[MUSIC] Now, let's take a look at the array of
stakeholders involved in data management. So, initially, you have the primary
researchers, or principal investigators, who design the study,
specify what data will be collected, and determine how to analyze the data and
draw conclusions from these analyses. They come to know the data quite well, but in a large research project with complex
data, it can be difficult even for the primary researchers
to know what they have. Within a research project,
you may also have graduate students or other staff members who are tasked
with collecting the data and managing it, and
often analyzing it as well. Good data management
facilitates clear communication between the primary researchers and
graduate students. It also facilitates multiple
students working together and the passing of information to new students
from those who have left the project. Institutions such as universities and
research institutes, are usually involved in setting some of
the internal data management policies. Institutions may also provide
data management resources to researchers including
data management training, support for researchers writing
data management plans or services for archiving data. A data repository curates data, ensures the long-term
preservation of data and provides access to data. Data repositories work
with the data creators to ensure data remain useful over time. Data repositories also
work with data creators to place any necessary access
restrictions on the data, including those determined by
institutional or funder policies, embargoes, as well as any security and
copyright concerns. The secondary user of the data is
the third party that comes into the picture later in the research
data life-cycle and may use the data to verify published results, for
secondary analyses or for teaching. Users can come from many backgrounds,
including students, faculty, research project team members,
private entities, businesses, government officials, journalists,
or citizen scientists. Funders are the agencies or organizations that provide the money
to support a research project. Most US Federal funding agencies
require researchers to actively and properly manage their data throughout
the research project’s life cycle with an end goal of making the data
available and accessible for sharing, A data management plan is now
required of most project proposals. These plans clearly outline
the specifics of how the data will be effectively collected, managed, stored,
and preserved for future access. Publishers and Journals disseminate
scientific discovery and maintain the integrity of
the scientific record. Publishers and Journals are increasingly
encouraging researchers to cite data, and some, such as PLOS, or the Public Library of Science, are issuing
policies that require researchers to make data underlying published results
available within a data repository. As you can see there are many different
stakeholders involved in data management. The variety of stakeholders
suggests that proper management of data throughout the research
lifecycle requires communication and cooperation between these various groups. [MUSIC]