[MUSIC] In this module, we discuss searches for new phenomena beyond the known ones
described by the standard model. In this video,
we will discuss searches for tails in characteristic
event distributions. This type of searches are, for example, typically used in searches for
supersymmetry. After watching this video, you will know, how we typically search for
supersymmetry in hadron colliders. What is the main challenge of researches in the BC
proton-proton collision environment. And, where we stand in our search for
supersymmetry and new physics in general using
the ATLAS experiment as an example. We are typically searching for new physics
looking for bumps on a steeply falling spectrum or looking for enhanced tails in
the distribution of a relevant quantity. We already talked in the previous
video about bump searches using the heavy Z boson as an example. While this type of searches
is very intuitive and convincing in case of a positive result, such bumps are not easy to identify in
the case of supersymmetric particles. Supersymmetric particles decay in
cascades, generating long decay chains which make it difficult to
identify a resonant signature. Given the large multiplicity and
variety of particles in the final state, we are typically looking for an
enhancement in the tail of a distribution. Relevant distributions can be related
to the multiplicity of a specific type of object, for example jets, or
to missing transport momentum which in many variants of supersymmetry is
enhanced by the emission of neutralinos. These are the lightest supersymmetric
particles, neutral and weakly interacting, escaping
the detector just like neutrinos do. In a SUSY search, we are therefore looking for signals that way where a relevant quantity
can be the missing transverse momentum. The standard model backgrounds,
given the large number and variety of objects involved in these
searches, are very complicated to estimate. For background determination, we are using data-driven methods combined
with simulation-based techniques. We use standard model processes with
similar characteristics to verify that the detector response to an assumed
signal properly simulated is, indeed, as expected. In this type of searches, the user of multivaried discriminance
is not uncommon in attempts to achieve a more powerful discrimination of
the signal with respect to the background. To increase sensitivity in models that
involve large multiplicity of b quarks in the final state like
the one shown on this page, we reconstruct jets
originating from a b quark. We use the knowledge that
hadrons containing b quarks travel a short distance inside
the detector before decaying. Stable hadrons, on the contrary, come
directly from the proton-proton vertex. We also reconstruct top quarks from their
decays using their kinematic properties. The top quark decays to a b quark and
a W boson before forming a hadron and
with a branching ratio close to 100%. The W boson decays most often to a quark pair. When the top quark has a large momentum, its decay products are more collimated,
as shown in this picture. At high top quark momenta, some of the jets cannot
be disentangled from each other. It is therefore common to define
wider jets, called fat jets, which capture the products of the decay
of a high momentum top quark. We can therefore require, for example, the presence of multiple fat
jets in collision events, a requirement that can improve
the signal to background discrimination compared to an event selection that
does not include such requirements. You can see in these figures examples
of how final distributions look like. The filled areas show the standard
model prediction while the dashed line shows how supersymmetry
would manifest itself. The black points show
the observed distributions which agree very well with
the standard model prediction. What is shown here where in fact,
two signal regions with the largest excess on the left and largest deficit on
the right of a specific search. The agreement with the standard model
predictions is usually even better than what is demonstrated in
these examples. Getting tails of a distribution right in hadron collider
data is a very significant challenge. Many experimental factors can
alter the expected distributions, therefore, careful study goes to
distributions with similar properties but coming from well-known processes. This ensures an excellent
understanding of those factors and the associated systematic uncertainties. One of the most significant challenges
comes from what we call pile-up. At the LHC,
protons don't collide individually but in bunches of hundreds
of billions of protons. This results in multiple
collisions in a bunch crossing leading to several low q^2 reactions. Distinguishing the hard scattering process
from the rest and understanding how pile-up affects the distribution of
interest are both very difficult tasks. In the hadron colliders, we have achieved
a significant level of understanding, having thoroughly studied
the LHC data collected so far. Having looked at a very broad spectrum
of signatures, we have not yet found any significant excesses
that could hint to new physics. In lack of excesses,
we put limits to the theories and models that have motivated our searches. That way, we can obtain a global view
of where we stand with our searches and ask theorists about their advice on which
direction to take in our future searches. The figures in this slide
give the current picture for all ATLAS searches for
supersymmetry and other new phenomenon. They are all expressed as lower
limits on the mass scale that characterizes the process. You can see we are close to
excluding supersymmetric particles up to 2 TeV in mass. Despite the fact that supersymmetry and
other theories beyond the Standard Model remain elusive so far, the open
questions of the Standard Model are so pressing that it is certain
there is something beyond. With the increasing amount of
LHC data that is available, we are on the right track
to find what that is. We are faced with a unique chance to
make a unique discovery at the LHC. And history has taught us,
it may be unexpected. At the LHC experiments,
we are looking forward to that. [MUSIC]