[MUSIC] During this fourth module,
we are going into more details about the properties of
electromagnetic interactions. In this fourth video, we describe Compton
scattering, which we already encountered in module 3 when we discussed
the interaction of photons and matter. After following this video, you will be able to characterize
Compton scattering, which is the elastic scattering
between a photon and an electron. Describe how the polarization of
the photon influences the process, and understand why the
annihilation of electron- positron pairs into photons
has similar properties. We have not yet discussed that vector
bosons, which carry forces, can also appear as real particles, and
matter particles as virtual ones. Compton scattering, elastic scattering
between a photon and an electron, involves a virtual intermediate electron,
as shown in this Feynman diagram. The kinematics of the process is
characterized by the energy omega of the incident photon and
the scattering angle theta, the angle between k and k prime,
which are the four-momenta of the incidence photon and
the outgoing photon, respectively. The conservation of energy-momentum
reduces the energy, omega prime, of the outgoing photon compared
to that of the incident one, omega, if the reaction occurs
on an electron at rest. The reduction depends on the scattering
angle theta and the photon energy itself. The figure gives an example
of this relationship for a source of Am-241,
which emits photon with omega = 59.54 keV. Because of Heisenberg's principle,
we can in fact, not know whether the photon in
the final state is emitted after or before the absorption
of the incident photon. So there are two configurations
of the Feynman diagram which are indistinguishable. The processes can
interfere with one another. To calculate the cross section,
we must then add the amplitudes and square the result,
as we explained in video 4.2. For the differencial across cross-section, one finds the so-called Klein-Nishina formula. Two factors are of particular interest. The first is the factor alpha squared, which determines the order of
magnitude of the cross section. It result from the fact that
each vertex introduces a factor of e when constructing
the invariant amplitude M. Consequently, the cross-section, which is
proportional to |M|^2, which is proportional
to the fourth power of e, is proportional to the square of
the fine structure constant alpha. The second interesting factor involves
the product of two four vector of photon polarization, epsilon and
epsilon prime. These appear as the amplitude in
the wave function of the free photon, which is the solution of
the homogeneous Maxwell equations. Under the Lorenz gauge,
these equations of motion constrain epsilon such that k^2 = 0, which is the condition for a real photon. The gauge condition, ∂_µ A^µ = 0, means that epsilon^µ k_µ = 0. The four-vector of polarization
epsilon, indicating the electric field direction, is thus orthogonal to the
four-momentum of the free photon k. In addition,
this gauge condition shows that the photon will function as only three
independent components, not four. It is therefore justified to call
the photon a vector particle. When the polarization of
the initial state is 0, and that of the final state is not measured,
we must average the cross-section over the direction of the initial spins,
and sum over those of the final state. This must be done at the level of
the cross-sections, not of the amplitudes, because the spin is an observable, making the contributions distinguishable
as we discussed in video 4.2. For the factor containing the polarization
this results in a distribution (1 + cos^2 theta) of the scattering angle theta between
the incoming and outgoing photons. At high photon energy omega much larger
than m, the total cross-section is roughly inversely proportional to
the square s of the total initial energy. This is a property shared by all
scattering processes between point-like particles. Their cross-section decreases
with the square of the energy scale, which characterizes the process. Obviously, the square of the fine
structure constant alpha, again determines the order of
magnitude of the cross section. Compton scattering can be measured at high energies using the Large Electron- Positron collider, LEP, at CERN, which operated during the 80s and 90s. The incident photon beam is generated by the incoming
electrons via the bremsstrahlung mechanism. An accelerated charge 
tends to emit photons. Here the acceleration is caused by
the electromagnetic force coming from the particles in the other beam. The electron or positron emits a photon
in its original direction of motion. The photon interacts with a positron or
electron n the other beam,
via Compton scattering. The outgoing electron and
photon are observed in the detector. As the initial photon
connects two vertices it is a virtual photon with k^2
different from 0. Our treatment of the Compton
effect applies to real photons with a k^2 = 0. To apply it to this case,
we select events for which the mass of the initial
photon is negligible compared to the characteristic energy, that is to
say k^2 << s. The cross-section for
Compton scattering with this quasi real photons measured by the experiment 
L3 at LEP is shown on the right. The dependence on the initial
energy square root of s predicted by the calculation is in fact
observed. It is proportional to 1/s. Rotating the Compton scattering
Feynman diagram by 90 degrees, one obtains another process. The annihilation of an electron-
positron pair into a pair of photons. Notice that we also convert
the outgoing electron of the Compton process into
an incoming positron. This remains without consequence
because these two states are completely equivalent. We will come back to that in
the beginning of module 6 when we discuss antiparticles
in more details. With the appropriate changes
in the kinematic variables, we can convert to the Compton scattering
result directly into the cross-section for pair annihilation in the center of
mass frame and neglecting masses, for s much larger than
the square of the electron mass. Note again the characteristic factor,
alpha squared, which comes from the coupling constants,
and 1/s, which characterizes the square of
the energy available in the process. We have chosen the center of mass
frame where the electron and positron collide with equal and
opposite momenta. The photons are therefore also emitted
with equal and opposite momenta. The scattering angle theta is the angle between the incoming
electron and the outgoing photons. It is obvious that the angular
distribution is symmetric under theta going to theta plus π. The factor (1 - cos^2 theta) in
the denominator can come as a surprise, because it makes the cross section diverge
when the scattering angle approaches 0 or 180 degrees.
Such divergence is not admissible. The cross action that represent the
probability must always respect the upper limit of unitarity corresponding
to a probability of 1 for the process. Already the factor 1/s
looks suspicious, but the dangerous limit, s -> 0, cannot
be reached because of the threshold s > 4 m_e^2. The angular divergence on
the other hand is real. It is finally not realized, because of
higher order corrections which cancel it. In fact, the perturbative expansion
by orders of a small coupling constant, always ends up converging
in a quantum field theory based on the principles
of gauge invariance. The demonstration of this fact has
been rewarded by Nobel Prize in 1999 for t’Hooft and Veltman. In fact, the cross section
is always really a finite quantity. The figure shows the results of the
measurement by the L3 experiment at LEP. The cross section follows with great
precision in absolute magnitude and in energy dependence,
the prediction of quantum electrodynamics. In the next video,
we give an example of an electromagnetic interaction
between four fermions, e+ e- annihilation into
a fermion-antifermion pair. [MUSIC]