[SOUND] Hello, welcome back to
the course on web connectivity and security in cyber-physical systems. This lesson starts a module on link
layer connectivity protocols and application layer communication protocols. In this video lecture, we'll talk about
connectivity solutions available for embedded systems. In other words,
we will focus on machine to machine or M2M connectivity protocols and
their basic characteristics. Machine to machine connectivity
protocols facilitate the establishment of a connection between two or
more devices. Here we will be discussing the protocols
that reside on the link layer of the TCP, IP model. They establish a path
between two end points. For our cyber-physical system case,
the connectivity solutions can broadly be divided into two main
categories, wired and wireless. Wired connection are the one's that
require a physical connection between endpoints. While in wireless connections,
we don't have any physical medium. As we will see this classification
affects the abilities of the protocols in many ways. For example range, date rate,
and power consumption. Wired connections generally tend
to have higher date rates and higher power consumption but
this is not always the case. There are certain parameters
that help us defining and distinguishing connectivity protocols. Mainly range, data rate,
power consumption, topology, TCP/IP support, spectrum, estimated node support, approximate cost. Well, each of these will be
discussed in this lecture. The range defines how far away or to what distance the protocol
can offer connectivity. Based on this definition of range,
we divide the protocols broadly into four logical categories,
PAN, LAN, MAN, and WAN. PAN or personal area network
interconnects devices within the personal
space of an individual. The range is typically from
ten centimeters to ten meters. LAN or local area network
interconnects devices within a limited area such as a home, office, or building. It ranges typically from ten
meters to some hundreds of meters. MAN or a metropolitan area network
interconnects devices within a city or district covering several buildings,
a large university network and a citywide
municipal network are good examples. The range is typically from 500
meters to some tens of kilometers. WAN, or wide area network, generally has no geographical
restrictions on its location or size. The WAN enables different LANs
to connect to each other. Although the distance
is not a limit as such, a WAN can be restricted to
a specific country for example. The data rate defines how much
data per second you can transfer. Or how much data the protocol can
theoretically transfer per second. In wireless networks, the theoretical maximum is generally
quite different from actual results. For cyber-physical systems, we divide the data rates into low,
high and very high categories. Low data rates transfer up
to one megabits per second. High data rates more than one
to two megabits per second. And very high data rates more
than 50 megabits per second. This classification doesn't apply
when thinking in terms of typical human usage of networks. Remember that two megabits per second of
sustained throughput is pretty high for most embedded systems,
because your smart energy meter or smart lighting system, like Philips Hue,
doesn't watch Netflix. Data transfers are typically periodic
updates which do not require high data rates. Power consumptions gives you
an idea about battery life and a data throughput of your
interconnection protocol. Generally, the lower the power
consumption, the lower the data rate. Higher rates mean the device is on for
longer periods of time and has to process more and faster,
thereby increasing power consumption. Here we divide power consumption into
two categories, idle and active. Idle power consumption is the power used
when the devices is in the state of rest. Meaning, no communication is taking place. Idle power is a significant factor,
for example, in sensor networks. Where sensors are mostly
idle communication wise. Active power consumption
is the power used when a device is in the full
communication mode. This will give you
the battery life of your node when the node is under
full communication load. Another consideration is whether
the connectivity protocol and modules offer different power profiles. Such as idle state enabling profile,
low data rate profile, receive only profile, and
transmit only profile. Each of these save battery
power in its own way. The topology refers to the interconnection
between different nodes in the network. There are different ways a protocol might
allow devices to connect to each other. The most common or
dominant ones are the following. In a bus topology there's
a central line or bus and each device is connected to that line. So logically each device is directly
connected to the other devices. In a star topology we have
a central node or server and each device connects to this server. In a mesh topology,
each device is connected via point to point links to two or
more other devices. In a full mesh topology, each device is connected to all
other devices in the network. A tree topology is a mixture of
the star and bus topologies. In a tree network, two or more star
networks are connected by a bus network. An important question is, does the connectivity protocol
support TCP/IP on the higher layers? This is essential in two main ways. First, supporting TCP/IP
means easy aggressing and connectivity to existing internet or
legacy systems that are already deployed. Second, it makes web
connectivity very easy. In case there is no support for Internet
connectivity, a gateway can be used. For example, a large set of smart
tags can connect to a central server, which is connected to the Internet. In this case, the central server is the
gateway to the Internet for those tags. Gateways have their benefits and
drawbacks. For example,
they add extra cost and complexity. On the other hand, they can be
used to offer extended functions. A gateway could, for example,
encrypt data coming from the tags before passing this data to the Internet. Or it can manage authentication and
limited access to each tag. By doing so
the gateway essentially extends and complements the services provided by
the connectivity protocols themselves. It is important to know which part
of the microwave spectrum a wireless connectivity protocol uses. There might be regional restrictions on
the spectrum which is used by your device. Or a device might be operating
in a commercial band requiring you to get a license to operate. There are different bands but for simplicity we can divide them into
two categories, free and commercial. The free band is the portion
of the wireless spectrum that doesn't require devices
to have operating licenses. The most common one is the industry of
scientific and medical or ISM band. The frequency ranges are vast but
as an example Bluetooth and WiFi operate in the two point
four gigahertz ISM band. An example of the commercial band is 900
and 1,800 megahertz range used by GSM. Estimated node support
is simple to understand. It means the number of clients that
can be connected to each other, either directly or via gateway. There might no theoretical limit on
how many devices can be connected. But there comes a point where
the performance get severely degraded when a lot of nodes are connect
to a single gateway, for example in the case of a WiFi. The last parameter is the cost. When deploying a small set of devices a difference of some euros per
device might not matter too much. But when deploying hundreds
of thousands of nodes even a few cents can affect
the overall price greatly. In cyber-physical systems and censor networks, the number of
nodes is often large enough to make the price a decisive factor in
selecting the connectivity protocol. In this lecture, we have defined the basic
properties of connectivity protocols. In the next video, we will have an overview of a set
of popular connectivity protocols. [SOUND]