[MUSIC], In this seventh module, we'll discuss
searches for new phenomena beyond the known ones described by the Standard
Model, and covered in previous modules. We're going to remind you
why we need new physics. We will explain how we render hadron
collider data usable for searches and we will discuss examples, split in two categories,
based on the general characteristics of how new phenomena would
manifest themselves. In this video, we will describe the
theoretical limitations of the standard model and talk about new theories that
have been proposed to overcome them. After watching this video, you will know which are the open questions
the Standard Model leaves unanswered, how the theories are attempting to
answer them using a particular theory as an example and where we stand in our
searches, using the hadron colliders. The Standard Model is our starting point. It describes the world as we know it
today introducing matter particles and force carrier particles, the gauge bosons. Matter and forces have been
introduced in module 1 and detailed in modules 4 to 6. All these particles have been
observed experimentally, the last one being the Higgs
boson a few years ago. This was explained in module 6. The precision with which the Standard
Model describes our world is really astonishing. For example, here you can see
a representation of the cross sections with which various processes occur at LHC, 
measured by the Atlas experiment for various center of mass energies
of the colliding protons. More importantly, note how this compares
to the Standard Model theoretical prediction represented by the solid lines. For a huge range of production rates, the theory agrees surprisingly well with
the measurements on our collision data. Despite it's great success, the Standard
Model remains a piece in a bigger puzzle. It leaves, in fact,
many questions unanswered. The Standard Model does not explain
why the Higgs boson is measured to be so light. Quantum corrections to its
propagator like the ones shown here, ought to push its mass
to much higher values. The Standard Model does not explain
also the observation that the stars in the outskirts of the galaxies rotate
much faster compared to theoretical predictions, which indicates the existence
of a new form of matter, the dark matter. The dark matter will be
explained in video 8.2. Experiments show that the strong and
weak forces become weaker and that the electromagnetic force becomes
stronger as the energy increases. We have introduced this
phenomenon in video 5.4. This is a good indication that
at incredibly high energies the strength of
the electromagnetic, weak and the strong forces is probably the same. The Standard Model, however, does not provide a unification of
these forces at very high energies. What is really happening there? A lot of thought has
been given to this and other problems the Standard
Model comes with and ways to mitigate them have been attempted
by theorists all over the world. Theorists have come up with many
theories or models, in many variants, trying to address one or more problems
of the Standard Model at a time. In some of them, they introduce extra
space-time dimensions as a way to explain why gravity is a much weaker force
than the other fundamental forces. In such theories, hypothetical force
carrier particles called gravitons could be disappearing into extra
dimensions after having been created for example at the proton-proton
collision of the LHC. There are many other theories and
models that introduce new particles or interactions. Common in many of his theories is
the presence of new heavy bosons, similar to the W and Z bosons,
denoted as W' and Z'. How we search for
a Z' boson will be explained in video 7.3. A large theoretical framework of
beyond-the-Standard-Model physics that has been developed in the last decades is
supersymmetry, also know as SUSY. Supersymmetry is one of
the most discussed and studied extensions of the Standard Model. It imposes a symmetry between
the spins of forces and matter, which does not exist
in the Standard Model. The Standard Model only has
fermionic matter and bosonic forces. The symmetry requires that there
be a supersymmetric partner to all particles in our periodic system. They are so-called superpartners. However, we already know that
symmetry is a badly broken symmetry. The superpartners,
if they exist at all, must have very different masses to the known
particles in our periodic table. Supersymmetry is supposed to be solving all
of the Standard Model problems, at once. Let's take the first open question we
talked about, the Higgs mass problem. The calculation of the Higgs mass
within supersymmetry has extra loop terms coming from
the extra particles it introduces. These terms could cancel the large
terms in the calculation, leading to a Higgs mass that is
compatible to the experimental result. The lightest superpartner can be neutral,
stable, and weakly interacting with matter, becoming
a perfect dark matter candidate. And if supersymmetric particles were
included in the Standard Model, the strengths of its three forces
could have the same exact strength at high energies,
as in the early Universe. Supersymmetric particles
have been searched for at lepton and hadron colliders for
many decades now, but they remain elusive. We show here limits for the mass the gluino, the superpartner
of the gluon, obtained in a specific supersymmetric model at the latest
three generations of hadron colliders. The available parameter space for supersymmetry becomes increasingly
constrained by the experimental findings. The case is similar for
many new theories and models. Despite the fact that
there are no hints for new physics in the collider
experiments today, the urge to find new
physics is always present. And it is the reason why
high-energy physicists keep on seeking an anomaly in the data. This concludes the first
video of this seventh module. In the next video, we will describe the
tools physicists are using to make sense of the data collected at hadron colliders
in order to produce physics results and search for new phenomena. [MUSIC]