[MUSIC] Hello, welcome to this online
course on web connectivity and security in cyber physical systems. I'll be your lecturer
in this online course. My name is Juha Plosila and I teach embedded systems engineering
at the University of Turku. Turku is a beautiful city at
the southwest coast of Finland. A city next to 20,000 islands, and one that 35,000 higher education
students call their second home. [MUSIC] So, lets talk about
cyber physical systems. [MUSIC] Cyber physical systems,
are embedded devices that interact and control the real world. You might not notice them,
but they are everywhere. Ever wondered how the stationary escalator
starts moving when you get near them? There are sensors that detect movement and a small computer that then controls
the motors that run the escalators. In other words,
it's a combination of sensors and actuators that control the escalator,
a physical entity. It is a system where computation and control come together to improve
efficiency of the real world. And that is the philosophy
behind cyber physical systems. From controlling traffic to energy
transmission to running factories. Cyber physical systems help improve
real world efficiency and productivity. Modern cars and airplanes are examples
of cyber physical systems. Where electronic control units monitor and handle the different aspects
of these physical devices. But these isolated systems, cyber physical
systems generally do not work isolated. Their impact is much higher
when they are connected. Take the example of a nationwide
network of cyber physical systems managing the electric grid. Improving efficiency,
providing configurability and reactiveness in cases of great failures or
excessive loads. But what if we could connect our cyber
physical system to another already existing worldwide network? The World Wide Web or WWW for short, that
is what we will talk about in this course. Connecting cyber physical
systems to the World Wide Web. The course is divided into five modules. In the first three modules, we'll talk about connectivity
in cyber physical systems. And go all the way to the advanced
topics of cloud and fog computing. In the last two modules, we will teach you how to secure
these systems against cyber threats. If you want to build your understanding of
the web, web connected embedded systems or Internet of Things, and their security,
but don't know where to begin. This is the course for you. We will take you on a journey from the
fundamentals of the internet to web and cloud connectivity. And then towards building your
understanding of security in connected systems. Join me on this journey as I
strengthen your foundations toward web connected cyber physical systems. [MUSIC]