Okay, next topic is beadwork design. So the work we introduce here is a beady. Interactive beadwork design and
construction. The program here is beadwork design. so, bead work is add or
connecting beads together by wires. So, this is an example. So you have a 3D structure by connecting
small pieces connected by a single wire. And construction is given, supplies given
like this kind of two dimensional figure. So people are looking
at this instruction and then put piece together
one by one using a wire. And to design or construct design and construction of this kind of 3D bead
work is extremely difficult and hard. Suppose you have this kind of shape and
then tries to, want to make this head bigger,
or this arm longer. In order to do it you cannot insert
a bead at art arbitrary location. You know?
This is very hard, complicated, hard,
heavily constrained program. So this is a program we want to address. So how to design this shape and how to
guide the user to construct the shape. And our approach is two ways. So one is an interactive and design,
an interactive design and construction. So, a user designs this in, interesting
bead work design shapes by gestural, same photo-gestural interaction, and
that system automatically constructs appropriate beadwork structure and
also system provides interactive guide to generate a physically construct,
physical beadwork. On the inside, we, the system applies
a wire path planning algorithm to compute most efficient and also easy
to create the wire path structure. So, let me show you a demo. Okay, here's our demonstration system, and
the modeling starts with a base shape. So you, we prepared a couple base shapes,
let's use this one. And then, after having this shape,
you already have a simple shape. So here, the left one, so
this one is a structure design mesh, so it called design mesh. So you work on this structure
level to design a mesh. So this represents,
basic core structure of a final bead work. On the right hand side
is a simulation result. Result, or actual bead work model. So individual, shape is represent here. And the system shows what we
generated from this design, to this, the other result. And we provide gesture operation. I click here, and
then you add another primitive. And then you instantly get more structure. And the system is internally learning
continuously simple physical simulation so that, that the resulting
shape is always valid. And then we implemented a couple simple
gestures like this is extrusion, and then you'll get extruded shape. An Extrusion, and the extruded shape. And then you can crop the vertices,
and then crop vertices. And then you will get this shape. And then you can also split edge and
the connect edge. So essentially, the user is editing
the topology of the mesh, and then physical simulation automatically
compute the geometry of the shape. Because what user can specify is just wire
structure, connection between this and the final shape is automatically
defined by physics, by putting these piece together. And then you can also
put this kind of shape. So in this way, you can generate
reasonably interesting shape just by editing the topology with simple,
very simple gesture operations. And the system computes the 3D shape. And then you'll get the wire structure. And then after that you can paint them. For example you put eyes here, and so. And the after having this character,
the system computes the, you should press this Plan button. System automatically
computes wire plus and then the system starts
to giving instructions. So this, now this is an instruction. So, here you can see the total steps and
then your current position. And then system also provides feedback
about the lengths of the wires. And then this is the instruction. This says that, please put
a single bead in a long wire here. And then press next and
the system shows how to place next bead. Then next and next. So of course, construction is
to be done manually by you. So you put these one by one. And after each step, you press next and
the system shows a visualize that is out. So yeah memorizing 3D graphics
it's much more easy to associate current physical bead in your
hand with, graphics on the screen. So the, watching this instruction,
you put bead one by one, and then you will eventually
get the final result. And let me show you a video. So, again, this is overview of the system. So, the system allows the user to generate
more than by simple gesture operations. And then the system provides
construction guide. And then you will get the final bead
work model, and the physical bead work. So, yeah, geometric modeling is
a process I just demonstrated now. So let me skip these processes. So after that system it shows a step by
step construction guide like this one. So this is a situation
of a real construction. So use a piece one by one into the wire
according to the instruction shown on the screen. Now let me skip, so I'll go here now. And let me show you a couple of results. So yeah, we created a couple bead works,
original designs. And traditionally, I think design
completed in your bead work is so difficult so when you go, we actually visit couple
stores selling these bead works. But many, many stores sells
exactly the same designs. And but here, you know,
you can design your own things. So, this can be a very interesting
gift for your friends. So, yeah, here's an example, like penguins
or lizards or mouse or a teddy bear, so. So, let me briefly describe
the core algorithm. So, here's a view. So this is your design mesh. So you design this a mesh, using gestures. And then, after this design mesh,
we convert this to a big work model. The first step is like this. So each edge is actually a single bead. So the reason why we considered
using a vertices outside the edge, but actually, you know, a bead,
it has a wire passing through. So it actually correspond to it on a edge. So edge becomes a bead. And then bead is connected by wire,
to the neighboring beads, like this way. So, first step is combine single input, combine design polyhedron to a more
complicated structure model. And then, next task is to put a wire seat. And then this wire is given as a Eulerian
Circuit on this structure graph you know. Eulerian Circuit is visit
individual how to say. In this case,
basic individual edge, one by one. So, yeah, here's a brief
overview computing wire paths. But, however, one problem is
that arbitrary Euler cycle, or Euler socket is not stable. Stable is, this, this is difficult to explain but,
suppose you have this structure. Yeah?
You have five faces and then you have this red path goes through
and then blue path goes through. And by connecting these in
the final configuration, you will get final stable shape. But in the, in the middle,
while you are creating, you have, also, an intermediate shape. But in this intermediate shape,
all beads are moving around. It's very difficult to manually construct. So in order to be, make it easier to manually construct,
the process should be like this. The individual, the wire should close
one by one, based on individual faces. So, in, what they were in the intermediate
status, faces are closed one by one. So you won't have to do this. The system actually first
computes a face strip, on the design mesh and then compute
a wire, place wires along this face strip. And this face strip computation
is given as a Hamiltonian path on the graph consisting of faces. So, yeah,
this is a result of stripification, or computed Hamiltonian path. So, this path visits faces one by one,
and then we then put wires, so that wires completes these
faces in this order. So, yeah, that's it and the original paper
was called BD and published in 2012. And the step by step in,
instruction used in our work, was inspired by a previous method designed
for instructions, step by step for the furniture,
core selection like this one. And also our method also
contains a conversion of 3D, existing 3D mesh model to
a simple bead work mesh. And this work is in, in this part
is related to mesh simplification. And then good one example paper is this
one: Variational shape of approximation. So getting very detailed 3D mesh and these simplification methods be
done the very simplified mesh. And this may be interesting
thing to learn. Thank you.