Our next topic is Chair Design. And the work we introduce
here is called SketchChair. So the problem to address here is that
design and construction of original chair. Suppose you want to design your own chair, instead of buying
something from the store. And there're so
many issues to consider, you know? You know that to work as a functional
chair you need to be physically valid. It should be stable and
it should not break if you sit down. And also it should be easy
to manually construct. So we present our design
system specialized for chairs. So the design can be done
by easy sketching and the system automatically checks
its balance, or stability. And also system automatically
generates a construction plan. So let me show you a demo. So, yeah, here's the system. And then you design your own chair. For example, you have a chair
like this with a long back, and we have a leg like this. So, I just draw three strokes, and now you already have a 3D chair
moving like this one, and then by pushing a print button that
you will get two dimensional pattern. So after that, you can just print this
into, send this data to a laser cutter, and then the cutter automatically
cuts physical wood material and then you can get a physical chair. So after having this designed,
you can also learn its physical validity. So, we also have some additional features. So if you press play button here, system
tries to push this guy on this chair. So here, it's fine. You know, you can put down on
a character on this chair. However, if you,
you create unstable chair. So let me show you
intentionally unstable chair. For example, if you have a chair
like this and then if you put leg in appropriate positions,
if you press Play, and then you know, this is not very good, and then you,
you see that this is problematic. So this is very simplistic,
this is just a starting point but you see that physical validity checking
is possible, and then can be useful. And let me show you a video. So yeah. I already showed a simple video,
a demonstration already, but user draws a sketch, and then draw a leg,
and then you will get the 3D shape. And then you can also additionally
edit the shape profile by dragging to adjust the shape. And we can also adjust the leg. So if you spend more time,
you're going to get more control. You can also, you know, edit individual
layer to get more three dimensional shape. So then you can progressively move on
to a more detailed design if you want. Yeah as we see we also provide
the polygon tool and also tool and also you can change
the spacing between the layers. So, yeah, as I said the simulation, so
you can take the stability of the chair, And also you gain stability of the chair,
rocking chair. Yeah, as we see, you can change the design while running
a physical summation if you want. Now we also implemented a couple
of features to assist molding. So this one is using of this
kind of accessory object. So you can see this kind of object
has a difference to design, here. So use as designing a piano chair,
so you can see the size. And it's not shown here, but it's, you can also change the proportion
of the human figure if you want. So this feature allows a user
to test many variations. So after designing this one,
it's a previous one was hibernated. So you can temporarily pan off on the,
you can test different one, and then go back and
forth between different designs. Okay, after our finish design,
then you can get this profile and then you can send this to a printer. So fast easiest way is to use
a cutting program with a paper cutter. So you can send this to a paper cutter,
and then you can cut the paper. And then you can get the paper chairs. And this is cheapest way, so
you can generate many designs. You can do many designs studies
using this paper chair first. Yeah.
After having a paper chair, you can actually generate a big
one by using a laser cutter. Laser cutter is very handy too. So it's exactly like a printing machine. You just send two dimensional data. But then you will get this kind of
wood material cut by according to the diagram and you get this. And by putting cushions
around the surface, and then you'll get a more realistic chair. So here is some results. So these are the variation
of paper chairs. A rocking chair we just saw. And then full sized chairs, like these. And this is a piano chairs. Yep, so, that's it. Here's a couple of examples,
and so this is the big chair. Yeah so we, this is a big chair,
I just saw, and then so
I have a small chair like this one. This is. This can be a very good
sitting form placer. Okay so we use physical simulation here. We use an open source physics
engine rigid body simulation. So we, we currently use bullet engine. But there are many other possibilities. So these physics engine is usually
used for games, you know, 3D games and there are objects moving around,
bumping each other, but these are now very popular, easy to use. So you can pick any simulation engine into
your code and you can play along with it. And I think this work is a very good
example of a new way of design seating. We call it Meta-design. So traditionally,
designers design final product directly. Go through designers, design chair, so
designer just physical shape of a chair. But here, in the future,
I think designers will not only just use their physical shape, but also designers
needs to design, design processes. So here in this project, designer or
us, we actually design a process. And we de, define a process, and then
inside with this process and the user will sketch and then system automatically
generates us, these number of 3D chair. Depending, taking user input, but also
according to the designer's intention. And I think this kind of meta
design process can be more and more important in the future. So, to learn more,
original paper was published as SketchChair: An All-in-one chair
Design System for End-users. And rigid-body simulation,
if you now want to know the technique on implementation details,
if you want to implement by yourself, recommended reading is Rigid-Body
Simulations, SIGGRAPH Course 1992. But if you want to just use it,
there are many you know, packages. And as for the furniture design,
I recommend you, I recommend you to take a look at YouTube
video from Front Sketch Furniture. So this is interesting artwork. So user can try to sketch
furniture in this 3D space, and then you will get physical
object using a 3D printer. So, thank you.