Our next topic is interactive packing. So, so far we've discussed design
system but here it's not design. It's a, assisting laser cutting. So the title, this word is titled
PacCam: Material Capture and Interactive 2D Packing for Efficient
Material Usage on CNC Cutting Machines. So as a program we want to address these, how to make an efficient layout
within a given material. So if you have a laser cutter or
cutting process it opens a case. You cut out main materials and
then you get this kind of waste. But you still see many useful regions,
so this is a kind of waste. So we try to address this program,
introduce packing system. So our approach is to develop
our overlap free layout that fits within the given material. So you capture the material with holes and
then we apply overlap free layout. And then you'll get more
efficient usage of the material. So, let me show you a video. So, first you capture the device,
captures the material in this way. And the system will get this image. And after that, you put,
your pattern here. So this white is holes, hole,
and the red is, pieces. And the user interacts with and
manipulates it. But the system automatically
applies collision detection, so there will be no overlap, all the time. And after that, you send this data back to the laser
cutter, and then you will get the result. And then there is no more waste. So yeah, this one shows a motivation. So this is a capturing process,
so we first need to calibrate. So to do so
we put checkerboard patterns and then system knows the correspondence
between the camera image. And then your 3d your 2d coordinate. And then after taking the picture, a system applies image
processing to detect silhouette. And in order to develop
a packing user interface we first run observational
study to ask people to. Take a look how they use it and
then we design our interactive system. So, basic structure is like this. Use a one by one moving around and
they do the layout. So, you see here is temporarily
turning off the collision detection so you can get more flexibility and
pure collision detection. And we provided an operation to gather
pieces together, or push away on others. So, here, we pull everything upwards. And here is a couple of examples. So this is also used for, for, as an arrangement of, material
consisting of many different patterns. So we proposed four techniques here. The most single one is pushing. So it's use a moving around and then collision detection will
push other materials away. And second one is compress, so
if you select the materials or select pieces and then do a simple
pinch gesture and then you needed highlighted materials parts comes
together to have a pucked layout. And then also we also implemented
a tilting operation, so gather all of the pieces. Move to one direction. And one interesting operation
is Collision Snapping. As I said,
as the system also temporarily turned off Collision Detection to get more freedom. For example, if you want to pull
this blue one over to the other side of the red one, you cannot do this if
you always running Collision Detection. So in this case you know if
the user is putting away in the system temporarily time of collision
detection then go to other side. A little bit more detailed
explanation how it work. So first user moves to other piece and
they just follows it. And if there's a collision then
there's a collision force. Again a reaction and
then it starts to rotate and after rotation you have two collisions and
it stops there. But as the user continually,
continuously dragging farther away, then the system detects that there is
no way of passing through, however, user still wants to do it. So I, after passing some threshold the
system will go into this floating mode. In this floating mode, system temporarily turn off the collision
detection physics simulation. So this floating object just
follows the users dragging. And, and after going back after
passing through the almost and then the piece come back to the original,
collision mode. So this is a collision snapping system,
So, again, we use an open source
[INAUDIBLE] physics engine here. Here, we only need a 2 dimensional
simple collision detection So we use a box 2D physics engine. So do a lot more,
original paper was published as PacCAM and it was published in 2013. And here we label it as
mult-touch interaction. And multi-touch interaction
is very popular recently, and many people are proposing
different techniques. Very early one was published in 2002. It was called smart scape and
I recommend you to take a look at it. And also there are many interesting., There are a lot of interesting works. Introduction with razor cutting machines. And one example is and one interesting example is called
introduction construction. Interactive publication of
functional mechanical devices. What they do is, the user uses a laser pointer on top
of a razor copter to dial to the space where we have to caught on how to we
arrange the target shapes on the material. So, thank you and this is the end
of the fabrication section. So in this week,
we introduced plush toy design, beadwork design chair design,
and design of soft folding. And we finally introduced
interactive packing methods to efficiently use the material. Thank you.