[MUSIC] So thank you very much, Nico, for
being here with us for this interview. Could you tell us a couple
of words about yourself? >> Okay.
Thanks, Anna. Thanks for inviting me. So, I'm Nico Serra. I'm professor at University of Zurich and
I work in the LHCb experiment. >> The LHCb experiment. Could you tell us how the detector
of the LHCb experiment differs with respect to the bigger,
general purpose detectors at the LHC? >> So, LHCb has been designed and
optimized in order to measure properties of c and c hadrons,
Hadrons containing the b and c quarks. This explains the peculiar geometry, which is similar to the geometry
of fixed target experiments rather than onion-like geometry that you can
see at detectors like ATLAS and CMS. And the reason is that the partons
that compose the protons, the quarks and gluons, have a much
higher probability to carry a low momentum fraction of the proton with respect to
carrying a large fraction of its momentum. Therefore, to produce
relatively light objects like for instance b hadrons, the probability is much
higher to have asymmetric collisions. This implies that b hadrons are produced
predominantly in the beam direction, forward and backward, and
with a very large Lorentz boost. So this geometry, therefore, allows to collect a really large
statistics of b hadrons even if covering really small solid angles and
operating at a lower luminosity. In addition, it has the advantage,
since the b hadrons have a large Lorentz boost, decays are really displaced
with respect to the proton-proton interaction. And these are very big
handles against background. And in this geometry, we can easily
accommodate RICH detectors for particle identification. Particle identificatiob, momentum resolution and vertex
resolution are the key feature in order to select the signal over the background. >> Good, so, you said that the LHCb
detector operates at lower luminosities with respect to other
experiments like ATLAS, in whose cavern we are right now,
by the way. So that means that there
are smaller event rates. Does it mean that we do not
need a trigger anymore? >> No, we do need a trigger. And starting from the 40 MHz
bunch crossing rate, we have a hardware level-0 trigger that
reduces the rate to about 1 MHz. After that, we run a software high-level trigger that runs a mixture of inclusive and
exclusive selections to further reduce the rate. And recently we had a major
shift in the paradigm of triggering in LHCb. And this is done in preparation for
the LHCb upgrade, where we will run directly a
fully software trigger. So what we do is to buffer events
in the disk, and to perform online calibration and alignment of
the detector such that we will run in the upgrade the same event reconstruction
as offline with the same quality. >> That's very interesting, indeed. Can we can now focus on the searches? What type of searches do you at the LHCb? >> So, at LHCb we do searches for
new physics. But rather than doing direct search
of bumps and tails of new particles, we hunt for
these particles as virtual particles. So, let me explain this with an example. For instance, let's consider
the decay of the B_s mesons in a di-muon pair. This decay is a very rare decay in
the standard model because it is suppressed by the GIM mechanism and
also helicity suppressed. And its branching ratio is about
3 10^-9. If you have new particles,
like, for instance, in supersymmetry,
they can enter in mediating this decay. And they can change
the properties of this decay. For instance, they can enhance this
branching ratio by orders of magnitude. Therefore, you compare what you
measure with the predictions. >> If you actually measure
then this type of decay, you can constraint
supersymmetry as well. >> Exactly. For instance of all this particular
decays, the fact that we measure a value of the branching ratio that is in agreement
with standard model predictions allows to strongly contains supersymmetry. Also consider that this is complimentary with respect to direct
searches in ATLAS and CMS. Because since we hunt these particles
as virtual particles, we are not limited by the available
energy in the center of mass. So we can in principle
constrain particle that have mass higher than
the collision energy at the LHC. >> I see. Could you explain to us
how such a search is done? >> So these are rare decays so it's very important the selection. You have to be efficient in rejecting
the background and selecting the signal. Then, we attribute the di-muon pair to the B_s, because essentially, we see a mass
bump in the di-muon invariant mass spectrum. But the difference is that we
do know what is the mass of the B_s, so we do not have the so called « look elsewhere » effect. But you do need to know very well the efficiency of your
detector and the background. And you have to know how many B_s
are produced originally. What you do normally is to normalize with
respect to another decay that you know very well with a very
well known branching ratio. And you choose this decay,
such that you can somehow cancel some systematic
uncertainties in the ratio. >> Okay, now you talk about uncertainties. How do these compromise
this type of measurements? >> So, first of all we have three
types of uncertainties in these searches. The statistical uncertainties like
everywhere due to the limited statistics. Then you have the systematic
uncertainties. In this case for instance, a 
source of systematic would be the limited knowledge of the efficiency or the limited
knowledge of the background. And in addition, since we compare our
measurement with the predictions, we have uncertainties which are due to
the accuracy of the theory predictions. This is due to the fact that theories
have to extrapolate from the Feynman diagrams at the quark level, to 
what happens at the hadron level. And this involves uncertainty
due to QCD essentially. >> Okay. So, do you see any deviations with
respect to the standard model in this channel or elsewhere? >> So we don't see deviations in
B_s -> µ+ µ- but we do see deviations with respect
to the standard model elsewhere. >> Could you tell us more about that,
actually? >> Yes, so
one of the things we test at LHCb is the lepton flavor universality in b decays. So, as the students know, the electron,
the muon and the tau, they behave exactly
the same way apart from their mass, which comes from their different
interactions with the HIggs boson. But apart of that they behave
exactly in the same way. So if you have a branching ratio of a B meson
decaying to charged leptons and you factor out the effect of
the mass in the phase space, their branching ratios should be the same. If you have a new particles,
new virtual particles as I said before, they might couple differently
to electron, muon and tau and they would spoil the lepton
universality of the standard model. So, what we see is exactly a departure
from this lepton universality, in some B decays and by now, we need more data to be
certain of this deviation but it certainly looks like an intriguing pattern we are seeing. >> Okay, well it is certainly interesting
the breadth of the research program of LHCb. What else have you discovered? Could you tell us a bit more about that? >> Yes, so in addition to search for
new physics, what we do is also to do
spectroscopy, to measure properties of particles, of hadrons predicted by
the quark model. For instance, by doing bump searches,
as you do in ATLAS, but at lower masses. We discover new excited states
of D mesons and B mesons. And in addition, we also do different
analysis which are called amplitude analysis that allows us to measure
the quantum numbers of these particles. For instance, the resonance X(3872) that was
long thought to be a D meson molecule. We could discard this
hyphothesis exactly by measuring the quantum numbers of this resonance. And also relatively recently,
we discovered two particles, which are consistent with being neither
baryons not mesons but pentaquarks. So particles composed by four quarks and
one anti-quark. And this was a breaking ground results. >> That sounds really exciting indeed. But now how about the prospects of LHCb for
the future? >> So, most of our measurements
first of all are dominated by the statistical errors. So it means that, in order to exploit fully the LHC potential,
we need more statistics. And therefore we are working
to prepare an upgrade of the LHCb detector to run at higher luminosity. In addition as I said,
in most measurements we do see a striking agreement
with respect to standard model and prediction, but
we also see some deviation. So our hope is that in the future
we will reveal a pattern of this deviation that can lead us
to the discovery of new physics. >> The prospects for LHCb to be are really
exciting from what you are telling us. So, we really hope that you reveal
this interesting patterns indeed. Thank you very much for this interview, Nico. >> Thank you Anna, bye.