Hello and welcome to the first Programming
and Simulation lecture. I am JP, I am very excited to introduce the program, programming assignments in
this course to you. Since this course is about controlling mobile robots, the progra, programming
assignments will focus on applying what you learn on the
lectures to simulated mobile robots. Therefore we will be using math lab based
robot simulator called [UNKNOWN], and its important for you to know that the weekly
assignments are entirely optional. Meaning that they do not factor into your
course grade however you have the option to submit each one of the
assignments for feedback. Since these programming exercises are
completely optional, let me take a moment to convince you why they are worth
your time and effort. First of all, they are a very unique opportunity to apply what you learn in
this course to a interesting problem. In this case, it's safely navigating a
mobile robot through a cluttered environment which is a super
exciting problem to solve. Second of all, you will learn MATLAB,
which is a very powerful tool for any engineer. And as a bonus, if you build draw in
QuickBot in this, that's built in this course, then everything that you write in
the programming assignments can be directly
tested on this robot. Hopefully, that's enough to convince you
to start with the programming assignments, so let's
get started with. Programming assignment number one and the
objective for this first assignment is to get comfortable with MATLAB and to run
the simulator at least once. We have included detailed instructions for
this assignment in a section called programming assignments and you can find
this directly on our course page. If your not already familiar with MATLAB. It can best be described as numerical computing environment and a
programming language. Since we will be using MATLAB extensively in this course, and in the programming
assignments. You'll have access to a license of MATLAB
for the duration of the course. In fact, this license won't expire until a
few week, weeks after the course ends, which will be plenty of time
to complete all of the assignments. These detailed installation instructions
can be found in the aforementioned programming
assignment section. As well as links to resources for learning
the key MatLab concepts that you're going to be needing, that you're going to
need to complete all of the assignments. The reason that we're using MATLAB in the
programming assignments is that we've developed a
simulator for mobile. Robots in MATLAB. And the simulator emulates the QuickBot
and this robot has a two wheel differential drive, five infrared sensors, and two
wheel encoders. All of the programming assignments are
based on the simulator and they will require you to,
for, example, write a go to go controller for the
QuickBot that drives it from point a to point b. And to help you in this endeavor, we've
included a very detailed user manual. That will help you both implement and test
your code. If you choose to receive feedback on your solutions we've designed a user interface
just for that. In fact over here is a screenshot of this
of this application. What you do is you enter your submission
log in and password, here. And then you select which parts of the
assignment you would like to have graded. For example, you might want to grade this
part, but not this part.
So you just check the first one. Once you're ready to submit, you hit the
submit to Coursera for grading, for grading
button right here. What will happen is that a script will
start the simulator, as well as your code to gather output and compare the output to values stored on the Coursera
servers. If your output matches with, with what is
on the Coursera server, you will get a check
mark. And 100% for this part of the assignment.
If it does not, you will get an x. And that means you've gotten 0% credit for
this part of the assignment. However, don't worry. You will get feedback about what you might
want to change in order to get the correct
solution. And you may resubmit as many times as you
want until you get a hundred percent on all of
the parts. Just remember that the points earned in
this assignment will not count towards your grade, but this is
really a great opportunity to get some feedback on your solutions.
So let's see all that in action in MATLAB. This is MATLAB. Here you see the command window, and to my
left is the current folder. What I've done is I've downloaded the zip
with the simulator for this week. And I've unzipped it and browsed to this
location. Here are all the files for the simulator. If you want to launch the simulator you simply type launch into the command window
and hit enter. This brings up the simulator, along with this cute swatch screen, swatch screen
right here. Along with a few instructions on how to
use the simulator. When you hit play.
The simulation starts. You can see the quick boat in the center,
and I can zoom in and zoom out using these
buttons. As you can see the quick boat has two
wheels, and five infrared sensors. These infrared sensors in blue are not
detecting any obstacles, but the ones in red are detecting this red
obstacle right here. We can also pen around and see that there
are several other obstacles. For example, these walls over here in the
environment. Any time you click on the robot the robot
will be centered on the screen for you. You can also pause and resume the
simulation at any time. Or restart the entire, entire simulation
by clicking on the home button. Once you're ready to submit, you type in
submit. This will bring up the submission window. Again, here are, is the login and password
for, for the submission on Coursera. This week's assignment only has one part
to it which is to run the simulator. But on other weeks you might have up to
three different parts to complete. Once I hit submit to Coursera for grading,
the simulator should pop up. And then close, close again because the entire assignment was just to run the
simulator once. And as you can see, I've done that, so I've gotten a check mark and 100% for this
assignment. If you have any questions, issues, bugs,
or concerns, please create a post in the discussion forums under the
programming assignments section. And make sure to include enough
information for us and fellow students to help you out. And with that, I wish you good luck.