We have covered a lot in this course. And as we have discussed,
data can come in many different forms. But despite the heterogeneity of data,
there are some basic data management best practices that can help
researchers do better research. We hope that this course was helpful not
only to researchers who are needing to actively manage their data and
share it at the end of a project but also for information professional
who are supporting researchers. As we have covered in this course,
research data management is most effective when it takes place throughout
the research data life cycle, and the first step should include
writing a data management plan. As we discussed,
writing a DMP is not only best practice, but it is increasingly
required by funding agencies. After discussing DMPs and
some useful DMP tools, the folks at the University of Edinburgh
covered some best practices related to organizing data, file formats and
transformations, and storage and security that can help when researchers
are actively working with their data. We also discuss the benefits
of sharing data, including promoting new research and
collaborations. Allowing for the verification and
replication of original results and enhancing the visibility
of research projects. These are just a few of the benefits, and while the benefits can be numerous
we also covered various challenges to sharing data from the effort it
takes to prepare data for sharing, to the lack of incentives for sharing
data within the current academic culture. Finally, we went over the role of
trusted repositories in curating, archiving and preserving data to
make sure it remains accessible, and understandable for the long term. All of the Cradle team would like to thank
you for participating in this course. We would also like to thank the Institute
of Museum and Library Services for sponsoring the creation of this mook. And finally we would like to thank Sarah
Jones from the Digital Curation Center, Adina and The Data Library at
the University of Edinburgh for their contributions. If you would like to continue your data
management education, we would encourage you to check out the programs offered
at The School of Information and Library Science here at UNC, including our
post master certificate in data curation. And our forth coming professional
science masters in digital curation. Likewise, the Odum Institute at UNC
provides data management services to researchers that can help ease their
burden as well as training information professionals and researchers in data
management and curation best practices. Check out the resources for additional
information on other data management training and education opportunities. Bye and thanks for participating. [MUSIC]