[MUSIC] In this lesson, we're going to further
examine some of the data sharing challenges that we have briefly touched
upon and discuss some strategies for overcoming these challenges. By the end of this lesson, we'll understand what is confidential
information, be aware of strategies for anonymizing data, understand how data
ownership can affect data sharing, be aware of the types of access
restrictions that may be placed on data, and know how to apply a standard license
to data, to encourage sharing and reuse. When collecting data that
deal with human subjects, researchers have an ethical requirement to
protect the privacy of study participants. This involves protecting an individual's
identity during the collection, handling, storage, and sharing of data. Often these ethical considerations
are outlined in a researcher's application to their institutional review board,
or IRB. There can be serious consequences of
confidentiality is accidentally breached. These consequences can negatively
effect a researcher's career. Negatively impact
a research's institution, and may include hefty fines or
even legal sanctions. Today, the news is full of horror stories of data breaches that may arise from
careless data management practices. In order to avoid these
situations a researcher needs to think carefully during
the data management planning phase about what confidential
information they may collect. If the data will be de-identified and
how or if they will share the data at
the conclusion of the research project? So what are the types of information
that need to be protected? First there is Personally
Identifiable Information, or PII. PII is defined as any
representation of information that permits the identity of an individual
to whom the information applies to be reasonably inferred by
either direct or indirect means. Note the reference to either direct or
indirect means. We will come back to
this idea in a moment. Next, we have
Protected Health Information or PHI. PHI is individually identifiable
health information transmitted or maintained, in any form or
medium, by a covered entity. And finally there is
sensitive information. Which is information, that if disclosed
there is a significant likelihood of psychological, social, emotional,
physical or reputational harm. These definitions show the breadth of
information that researchers need to actively protect when managing and
potentially sharing data. Now let's look at three
type of identifiers. As we mentioned above,
there are both direct and indirect ways a person can be identified. Direct identifiers are those variables or information included within data that
explicitly point to an individual or unit. These include, Social Security numbers,
phone numbers, and names, and
are often the easy ones to spot. The identifiers that can become more
problematic are the indirect identifiers. These are variables that may make
unique cases visible, particularly when combined with other individual
attributes, such as race or income. Finally, we have geographic identifiers. Which may include indirect
identifiers such as a Zip Code or direct identifiers such as
a complete mailing address. Consider an example data set in which
direct identifiers have been removed. The data set represents
the population of US citizens, who have earned doctoral degrees in 1991. Variables include the major field
of study, race, sex and geographic region of the academic institution
in which the degree was earned. Without direct identifiers such as name,
phone number, mailing address,
Social Security Number, and other information that link directly
to the identity of the individual it would seem that it would be impossible
to distinguish any given individual represented in this data set which
includes over 25,000 people. Let's take a closer look at these data. If we were to take just the people
who earned their doctoral degrees in the science and engineering fields, we are
left with just over 14,000 individuals. Of those individuals,
2,119 received their degrees in the physical sciences
1,707 of which are male. Of that group,
only 20 reported their race as black. Having quickly gone from over
25,000 people to just 20, how easy do you think it would be to
figure out who those 20 people are? Well, only eight of them were astronomy
majors it wouldn't take much more information to identify at
least one of these individuals. If we knew where those
degrees were granted, say in New York,
we would likely know who that person is. This example demonstrates that
protecting confidentiality requires careful consideration and special
handling of not only direct identifiers, but also indirect identifiers. [MUSIC]