[MUSIC] Now that we have familiarized
ourselves with key definitions, let's move on to the laws that govern and
regulate how confidential information is managed and
a subject's privacy is protected. We're going to focus on laws in
the United States, but different countries have different laws related to
the handling of confidential information. Researchers should familiarize themselves with all applicable laws prior to
collecting confidential information. We're going to cover three of the big laws that effect confidentiality
in the United States. Mainly, the Common Rule, FERPA, and HIPAA. The Federal Policy for
the Protection of Human Subjects, known as the Common Rule, Governs human
subjects research that is conducted or supported by any federal department or
agency. The common rule establishes
institutional review boards, IRBs, as the entities that oversee the ethical
treatment of human subjects in research. The Common Rule also
establishes requirements and protocols for gaining informed
consent from human subjects. And establishes rules for
the protection of confidentiality. FERPA or the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act applies to educational data. And establishes a student's right of
privacy for their educational records. This includes personally identifiable
information maintained by educational agencies or
institutions that receive funds under an applicable program from
the US Department of Education. PII in this case includes both direct and
indirect identifiers. The Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, or HIPAA Privacy Rule, protects PHI held or
transmitted by a covered entity. And the Department of Health and Human Services provides detailed
guidance on de-identification methods. In order to encourage
the dissemination of data. The HIPAA privacy rule provides two
main methods for de-identification. The expert determination method, allows
the person with appropriate knowledge to apply statistical methods
to de-identify a data set and then determine that the risk of disclosure
to an individual is very small. The expert must also
document the methods and results that lead to this determination. The Safe Harbor Method stipulates
the removal of 18 types of identifiers. The 18 identifiers include direct and
geographical identifiers. And the final identifier in the list
is in many ways a catch all for those indirect identifiers
that may be problematic. Because of the clarity of
the Safe Harbor Method, it has also been adopted in other
areas as a standard method for de-identification where laws and
procedures may be less clear. The Inter-University Consortium for
Political and Social Research, or ICPSR, also has information on methods for
protecting confidentiality in their guide to social science data preparation and
archiving which we will now describe. The most straight forward method is completely removing
the problematic variables. However, this could negatively affect
the usability of the data set for secondary analysis. Fortunately, there are alternative
approaches that may be used for handling indirect identifiers
within a data set. First is top-coding,
which involves restricting the upper range of a variable that may identify
outliers or unique individuals. Second is collapsing or combining. Where you combine values into a single
variable or merging data from two or more variables into one summary variable. Third is sampling, where you release
a randomized sample of the larger original data set that provides analysis
results comparable to the original. Fourth is swapping, where you use an
indirect identifier to match unique cases. Then swapping values of key
variables between those cases. And finally, there is disturbing the data. Where you manipulate the data
by adding random variation in the value while maintaining
their statistical properties. When it comes to qualitative data,
anonymizing data is best done using a pre-planned
anonymization scheme. An anonymization scheme
describes modifications to the qualitative dataset to
protect respondent confidentiality. For example, a proper name should be
replaced with more generalized text that describes the demographic
of the individual or the person's relationship
with the respondent. Specific dates, especially birth dates or important events, will also need to
be replaced with general markers. Other types of information that
would uniquely identify a respondent may have to be redacted or
removed completely. In this case, a marker should indicate that an item
was removed from the data set. These are just some strategies
that are used today to protect confidentiality
through anonymization. There are other strategies that
are currently being developed to protect confidential data. However, the most common strategy
currently remains to anonymize data by removing variables,
applying statistical techniques, or redacting information to lessen the
potential for identifying an individual. To determine the best strategy for
anonymizing data to maximize usability, a researcher should consider
future research questions and carefully consider a variable's
analytic importance. It may also be useful to consult
your institutional review board, statistical experts, or
information professionals. Who have expertise dealing with
sensitive or confidential data. [MUSIC]