[MUSIC] One of the other areas that may be
problematic when a researcher wishes to share his or her data, is resolving and
clarifying data ownership and intellectual property rights issues. Intellectual property rights can be
defined as rights acquired over any work created or invented with the intellectual
effort of an individual or entity. The question of how
intellectual property rights relate to data in particular
can complicate this issue. As we have discussed, research data
can come in many different forms which can affect whether data are subject
to intellectual property rights, different legal jurisdictions
may also apply. They have particular standards for
creative works, to data differently. Because of these complexities,
in order to effectively share data, researchers should first resolve
any data ownership issues. Resolving data ownership issues early, is particularly important because
the person who has ownership over the data ultimately controls its dissemination,
preservation, and destruction. Ownership issues can become even more
problematic and confusing because of the various stakeholders involved
in collecting and generating data. Today, collaborative projects, especially
cross institutional collaborations or international collaborations
can complicate data ownership. For this reason, it is important for researchers to come to an agreement
at the beginning of a project. Concerning how, when, and
by whom the data will be used as the basis of publications as
well as shared in the future. Institutional policies can
also influence data ownership. In some cases,
if a researcher is working for a university, then the data may
technically be owned by the institution. Researchers should be cognizant of
institutional data management and copyright policies when
considering data sharing. It is important that researchers
contact their institution if they are unsure about their
intellectual property rights. Funders may have policies related to
ownership rights of data that stipulate where and how a researcher
should share their data or impose restrictions on data dissemination. So being aware of funder
policies is also essential. In the case of using
extant proprietary data, researchers are often required to gain
permission from the producer of the data in order to legally share the original or
derived data. Because of the many stakeholders and policies that can affect data ownership,
researchers may be confused over who actually owns the data which may
make them reticent to share the data. We encourage researchers
to contact information and legal professionals early in
the research data lifecycle, to assist them in determining what
polices may affect data ownership. [MUSIC]