[MUSIC] As we have discussed,
there are numerous benefits and challenges to sharing research data. Because of the variety of stakeholders
involved in data management and the heterogeneity of data, access to data may vary based on external
limitations or researchers' needs. Some of the challenges we discussed,
such as data ownership issues or data containing sensitive or
confidential information may also affect how and
where a researcher provides access. As well as the types of
restrictions placed on the data. Today we will begin by discussing
three types of restrictions, or limitations, that
are commonly placed on data. First are embargos. Embargos are a specified period of time
when access to data will be restricted. Embargos commonly last
between 6 to 24 months. And are often based on rights of first use
or researchers needs to have sufficient time to publish using their data
prior to releasing them publicly. Embargos can also be required by other
stakeholders such as publishers. However, funders may require
that data be made available in a timely fashion or within a certain
time-frame after the project completion, which could limit the length
of possible embargos. Another type of restriction that may
be placed on data is technological access restrictions based on
user affiliation requirements. For instance, data users may be required
to log in to a particular system and authenticate the relationship to
an institution to access certain data. These restrictions may stipulate
that membership be required for access, or that a data user be affiliated
with a certain research group or institution, often due
to licensing agreements. The final type of restriction we
will discuss is data use agreements. A data use agreement explicitly
outlines an agreement between the data producer and secondary data user. And may impose rules for reuse,
storage, re-dissemination and disposal. Data use agreements are commonly
required when data have the potential to identify human subjects
either directly or indirectly. Any data user who is required
to sign a data use agreement should review this document carefully. And comply with all
aspects of the agreement, because violations can
result in consequences. Ideally to optimize for use researches
should make data as open as possible. However, this may not always be feasible. Clearly outlining any access
restrictions within the terms of use and applying a standard license can positively
impact the potential for reuse. Researchers should discuss
possible access restrictions and licensing with a repository of
choice to clarify their needs. And also determine the types of licenses
supported or required by the repository. While there are multiple different ways
and methods to assign a license or waiver to data, we're going to go into
a little more depth on one increasingly popular method, which is assigning
a standard Creative Commons license. Creative Commons is a US-based non-profit organization that has been a leader
in developing legal tools for sharing creative works over
the Internet since the 2000s. A Creative Commons license
has some key benefits. Namely, it provides a robust legal code. It provides a human-readable summary
that is understandable at a glance. And it provides
a machine-readable layer of code that can help make resources
interoperable across systems. Under the 4.0 version, Creative Commons also conforms to both copyright and
database laws where applicable, which is particularly important
when discussing licensing data. There are five main Creative Commons
license categories. Each has its own distinctive logo and
abbreviation. Attribution requires that users
credit the creator of a work. NonCommercial stipulates that a work
cannot be used for commercial purposes. No Derivative Works states that you cannot
alter, transform, or build upon a work. ShareAlike requires that if you alter,
transform, or build upon a work, then if you distribute the resulting work,
you must assign an identical license. And finally,
CC0 does not reserve any rights, and releases the work into the public domain. You will also see licenses that
are a combination of these categories. For instance, CC BY NC ND means you must attribute the creator,
the work cannot be used commercially, and no derivatives may be
created using the work. Creative Commons is an online
tool that helps users select an appropriate license and generate
text to apply the license to a work. Today, while some groups,
such as DataSite recommend researchers apply a CC0 license to data sets to
allow maximum freedom to reuse the data. This may not be possible
in all situations. As we discussed in this lesson
researchers may have to impose access restrictions on certain data,
which can take multiple forms, from placing an embargo on data to
requiring a data use agreement. However, in general, by explaining
restrictions within the terms of use and applying a standard license, a researcher
can help enable informed reuse. [MUSIC]