[MUSIC] In this fifth module, we're discussing
the structure of hadrons and the strong interaction. We've seen several times that the strong
interactions have special properties. Quarks behave as almost as free particles
at short distances inside the hadrons. Nonetheless, free quarks have
never been observed outside hadrons. This indicates that the strong force
confines them within bound states and does not allow to separate
them to large distances. In this fourth video we’ll
qualitatively discuss these seemingly incompatible properties. After following this video, you will
know the main properties of strong interactions, including its different
vertices in Feynman diagrams, color charge, gluons and
their role in binding quarks together, and vacuum polarization for electromagnetic 
and strong interactions. We already introduced
the 3 components of color charge in video 1.1 as
a quantum number of quarks. We also saw the immediate consequence
to triple the cross section for e+ e- annihilation 
into hadrons in video 4.5. Color is the quark property responsible
for their strong interaction. The formal theory of this interaction is
quantum chromodynamics, also called QCD. Color can take three different values,
red, blue, and green for quarks. We indicate it by a lower index when appropriate. A quark can carry only one non zero color,
antiquarks carry one anti-color. The interaction between quarks proceeds
through the exchange of color. The intermediate vector bosons transmitting
the strong force are the eight gluons, g. They carry a color and an anti-color,
and therefore are not color neutral. This is in contrast to the photon which couples
to the electromagnetic charge but does not carry one itself. For strong interaction,
there are eight gluons in total. With three colors and three anti-colors one would expect
a total of nine combinations. One of them, the fully symmetric combination,
that is red-antired plus green-antigreen plus 
blue-antiblue, has no net color, it does not
participate in strong interaction and so cannot be produced. The remaining eight gluons are
vector bosons, they are electromagnetically neutral and
have zero mass. The basic vertex of the strong
quark interactions changes the color of the quark. The coupling constant g
appearing in the vertex enters into the cross
section through its square. Alpha strong is equal to g^2/(4π), in analogy to the electromagnetic
fine structure constant alpha. The interaction has the same strength for
the three colors or any of their superpositions. So there is invariance under
an overall rotation in color space. According to Noether's theorem, this
requires a conservation law for colors. The vertex conserves color. The corresponding amplitude is
also independent of the flavors of quarks and their electromagnetic
charge, which are both ignored and conserved by strong interactions. If gluons carry themselves color, they should be able to
interact among themselves. Because they carry even color and anti
color, there are two additional vertices. The color indices indicated here
are only examples. The three-gluonvertex
is proportional to g and has the same strength as the quark-gluon vertex. We must, in each calculation, consider the
fact that there are many more different colors for gluons than for quarks. The vertex with four gluons on
the contrary is proportional to g^2 and thus disfavored with
respect to the other two. Color does not show up as a quantum number
in our characterization of hadrons. They are white. So far all established mesons are q-qbar states and all established baryons are three—quark states
of neutral color. Recently, the LHCb collaboration has discovered pentaquark states 
consisting of five quarks. However it's still unclear
whether these are bound baryon-meson states as shown in
the picture on the left or genuine compact multi-quark
states as sketched on the right. LHCb has also confirmed the existence
of a tetra-quark state first observed by the BELLE
collaboration in Japan. Again, the same reservations apply. It could still be
a meson-meson bound state, rather than a compact four-quark state. Mesons contain a superposition of 
quark-antiquark pais with all colors in equal proportions. A snapshot is shown here for
the interior of a positive pion. Gluons are constantly exchanged
between quarks to maintain binding, changing the color of quarks,
as in this sketch, while keeping the overall hadron white. The same mechanism works
inside baryons. Between hadrons, for example in a nucleus,
objects of neutral color are exchanged to create binding,
except at very short distances. It follows that an ab initio description of
the nuclear force stays very difficult, although we dispose of
a well-established quantum theory for interaction between quarks and gluons,
namely QCD. At short distances,
comparable to the hadron size, the exchange of gluons produces
a potential between quark and antiquark which is similar to the one established
by photons in a positronium bound state. This potential varies with distance as
1/r like the Coulomb potential. At large distances,
there is a different behavior, the potential becomes
larger with distance. We already saw a potential that fits
the description of the spectra of J/Psi and Upsilon states in video 5.3. The second term determines the behavior
of the long range potential with a constant K equal to
about 1 GeV/fm. This corresponds to a constant
long distance force equivalent to the one required
to lift a weight of 16 tons. The second term is created by
the interaction between gluons. In terms of a chromostatic language, the additional force between gluons
concentrates the color field along a corridor that connects
the two color charges. Because of the particular
shape of the field, one also call this a string
that connects the colors. The potential proportional to k times r does not allow color and
anti-color to be separated, but confines them to distances
of the order of 1 fm. The potential inside hadrons ought
to be generated dynamically by the interaction between the quarks and
gluons. Obtaining results is complicated by
difficulties which are both conceptual and technical. Both the confinement of color
at large distance and the relativistic and quasi-free movement
of quarks must be incorporated. One must treat states with
multiple quarks and gluons. The evolution of the strong coupling constant alpha_strong with four-momentum transfer
q^2 must be taken into account. We will talk about this
effect in a moment. Calculation techniques are considerably
simplified if one replaces the space-time continuum by a mesh
of equidistant discrete points, similar to a crystal lattice with sides a. One defines the quark fields
on the sites of the lattice, and gluon fields on the links. The continuum of space-time is recovered
in the limit of an infinitely large lattice with a -> 0. This discretization introduces
a lower limit on momentum-transfer of the order of 1/a, and thus regularizes the divergences
inherent to pertulative QCD. Numerical calculations of this kind
require tremendous computing resources. They are performed on the most
powerful supercomputers. With this non-perturbative method,
one arrives, fo example, at results for
the spectrum of light hadrons. The calculated masses are the average for
the different particle types. For instance, the mass of nucleon is
the average of the mass of the proton and the neutron. Parameters of the calculation are the
strong coupling constant, alpha_strong, and the masses of light quarks up and
down, and the quark strange. They are fixed using the measured
mass of pions, kaons and Xi as reference. This results in a pretty
impressive understanding of the hadron spectrum, suggesting that
QCD is indeed a correct theory for strong interaction also
at larger distances. Distance laws for
electromagnetic and strong interaction are fundamentally different. The electromagnetic potential decreases
as 1/r as a function of distance. The strong potential increases at
long distances proportional to r. To understand this difference, we must consider quantum correction
to the photon and to the gluon propagators. A significant correction to the photon propagator is the one which introduces
an electron-positron loop. This loop creates additional electric
charges between the projectile and target. We call this phenomenon
vacuum polarization. In electrostatic language we
can say that these additional charges screen the target charge. Therefore the effective charge
decreases with distance. That is, it increases with
growing momentum transfer q^2. This is, indeed,
what we find experimentally. For electrodynamics,
this is a small effect. To see a change of alpha of a few percent,
we have to compare momentum transfer at almost zero that
is at very large distances, where alpha is measured
to be about 1/137 – see the example of the Penning
trap in video 4.3 – to the energy of the Large Electron
Positron collider at CERN, where the momentum transfer q^2
is around 10^4 GeV^2. That is at very short distances. For strong interactions, the effect
of vacuum polarisation is much more pronounced. Because of the size
of the strong coupling, the vacuum polarization and the change in the net charge
with distance are more important. In addition,
the sign of the effect is reversed. The strong force becomes
stronger with distance. This is because there are two types of
vacuum polarization graphs for gluons. The analogue of electromagnetic
polarization introduces quark-antiquark loops in the gluon propagator
which shield the colors charge. But in addition,
the coupling of gluons between them introduces gluon loops which
have the opposite sign. And in the chromostatic language,
we can say that the gluon loops introduce additional color-anticolor
charges which are attractive. This reinforces the color charge of
the target instead of shielding it. Because of the large number of gluons, and their zero mass, gluon loops dominate
the strong vacuum polarization. Consequently, the color charge
of the target increases with distance proportional to the inverse
of the momentum transfer. Indeed one experimentally 
finds that this effect is more significant than its
electromagnetic counterpart. In the next video we will see
how these properties of strong interaction keep us from
seeing free quarks. [MUSIC]