Our next topic is pen and ink restorations
and pen and ink textures and the work we introduce here is
titled Vignette. The problem we want to address here is it is tedious to draw detailed patterns,
manually. So if you want to draw these kind of
patterns using your pen, you have to do every details
which is very tedious. And one possible approach is to copy and
paste, to repeat, generally repeated pattern but the
repetition is visible and looks too unnatural. So our approach is to use example based texture synthesis technic published
in 2011. So using this technique and combining
interaction technique, you can draw this kind of repeated pattern very
quickly and efficiently. Let me show you a video demo. So, if you pick a standard pen. This is just a standard inking system. However you can also generate patterns
like this way, so you suppose you can draw this kind of,
pattern. And then after you get this, you can
extend it this way. And also this way, so after i, identify pattern you can draw many instances just
by drawing. [BLANK_AUDIO] And another example is this one, so you specify a region first, and then you draw
patterns. [BLANK_AUDIO] Then after having a pattern, you can
repeat it like this way and then you would just get
pattern automatically. And another interesting feature is like
this, so you select a region. And then you paint and use your elements,
like this. Suppose you have bricks in this way. [BLANK_AUDIO] Maybe enough. And then you can get. Patterns like this way, and after that,
you can tilt it, like this kind of 3D effect. So this is, i, operation only happens
inside this region. But in this way, you can get, kind of three di, three dimensional effect,
within the region. Another possible operation is hatching. So, you first select a region. And then you draw example strokes like
this way, this way and this way, and so on. And then you, select these two. And then you get this kind of, matching
part of it. And then you can also draw in different
directions and then you'll get this kind of hatching
pattern very easy. So let me show you a video. So here, so you draw example sketches and
then you draw a line. And the system will automatically
synthesize it, so it's same pattern. And you can repeat it many times. And again, you paint an example, and then
system requests the desired path, and the system
synthesizes the same stroke. So in this way, I use and can paint many, many strokes, without drawing
individual strokes. And the most important part here is the seamless integration of example
generation, and then synthesis spot. [BLANK_AUDIO] And here's another example. So you, draw a few example, and the system
synthesizes a list. And after the synthesis, you can go back,
to the picture that I made. You can get, you can add more details and these are automatically applied to the
synthesis result. And you can also change the density, and
also you can change the curve shape later. [BLANK_AUDIO] The next part example is flood fill
synthesis. Again, you draw a very few elements, an
example, and then system automatically synthesize, the same texture
to fill the region. And after that, if you want, you can
change the flow orientation, just by drawing the strokes, and then picture will be modified to flo, flow, to flow
direction. And again, you can change the details
later [BLANK_AUDIO] And here's an example of hatching. You draw a few e, e, examples, and then
system predicts it. And after that, it will auto provide three
dimensional effect, you can use a tilting tool,
tilting tool, and then take, given the two dimensional
drawing you can add, kind of, perspective effect, for
individual regions. And here is a couple of example
operations, so you paint this. And then you can get many, many hairs,
just by sketching. And the auto-fill can be useful for the
background. [BLANK_AUDIO] And, here is the result. Here's another example. See, you draw examples and then, fill the
region. And then, you can use a perspective
tilting to give a more, like, a three dimensional
effect. And then background can be painted using
the picture synthesis. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now, here is the result. So that's our video. And here's a couple of results painted by
test users. So you can get this kind of eh, sketches
with many, many repetitions using this kind of
automatic texture synthesis. So this is one example and this is
another. You can get detail, very detailed hairs and very detailed background and hatching,
so on. And you can also get this. So I think 3D effect is used here and
here. And the technique we did, use here is
called discrete element texture synthesis. And so their technique takes input layout,
example layout. And then it automatically senses a new,
larger layout. Automatically. Without explicit repetitions. And what they do, is basically, iter,
iteratively refine it. Let's start with just simple repetitions. Patch on the copy, repeated patterns. But gradually improves it. And then you finally get a very beautiful
result. And for each step we do this. So, each step we repeat this. So first, for each element in the
synthesized image. For each element in the synthesized image. We look for the element in the source image with similar neighbor fill or
similar context. So, suppose you have an element here, and
you have, you know, circle and bro, circle and box
in this arrangement. You try to find the most similar
arrangement. So that a matching phase. After identifying a match, then you
compare the context. So this a synthesized context and this is
original context. And then you compare these two and then try to find ideal position for the,
surrounding object. For example, this box should be more to
the left to be similar to the source. So in this way, you compute ideal, ideal positions, or target positions for
individual element. For each pot, match. And individual element belongs to multiple
matches. We simply take average of all the related
ideal or target positions. And then move the object to the target
position. So by repeating them, then you will get
this kind of a result. So starting from simple multi-copies. And then you'll get seamless patches. Okay so that's a brief description of the
system called Vignette. Our original paper was published as a
interactive texture designed migration with freeform
gestures for pen-an-ink illustration. And the technique we used is called
Element Texture Synthesis. And, it was introduced in SIGGRAPH of
2011. Thank you.