Our next topic is Dynamic Illustrations. And the work we introduce here, is called sketch based dynamic illustration
of fluid systems. And the program we want to address here, is that it is tedious to illustrate fluid
flow. Suppose you have a engineering system or
architecture. Or organic shapes or a liver system. There is a lot of fluid systems, and you
may want to describe how the fluid flow in these
kind of systems. And then you want to get these kinds of
results. And it's very tedious to draw them
manually. So, our idea is to use automatic flow
simulation to automatically synthesize this kind of
data for illustrations. So here, the simulation is not used for
prediction, but this is used for a niche [UNKNOWN]
illustration. So let me show you a video [BLANK_AUDIO] So this is basically a drawing system. You draw something, and the system continuously runs fluid simulation behind
the scenes. And they add fluid flow visualizations
automatically. So you draw something, a region. And then you draw pipes. And then as soon as you finish drawing a system, system starts flow simulation
behind the scene. So it visualize a, a detail flow, and also
shows the result of fluid mixtures. [BLANK_AUDIO] So this tool is very useful for explaining
fluid phenomenons. [BLANK_AUDIO] So you can interactively edit the shape by
deformation tools. [BLANK_AUDIO] Okay. So an, our [UNKNOWN] example is here [BLANK_AUDIO] So here we use these two for explaining
surgical operations for a defected heart. So here is an example. So here this heart has very specific
configuration. And not very ideal. And here ideally blue blood come from the
body, should directly go to the lung, and then from the lung,
fresh blood, red blood comes into the heart, and then red
one should go through the body, however here blue blood is mixed together
with red one. And then purple one go to the body. So, doctors will perform a surgical
operation to fix this. However, before they that, they need to
explain what they do to their patients, or their
patients' parents. However, it's very difficult to do that
with standard tools, currently, they use
standard pen and ink. Black and white illustration to describe
them, however, it's very difficult to understand
it. But preparing this kind of beautiful
illustration using computer system, is too time consuming, and more
importantly, this kind of heart disease has different
configuration for each patient, so it's not possible to prepare a template
before hand. So, this kind of tool can be very useful. To explain and understand complicated flow
phenomenon. And then let me show you how it works. So first, the operation start with connecting the
locations, and then they will change the configuration
here. So doctor cuts here and then connect them. So, as soon as the configuration changes, the fluid simulation changes the flow,
prediction. [BLANK_AUDIO] So next one is the most important one. The doctor stops here, cut here, and then
connect here. And therefore, blood suddenly changes. [BLANK_AUDIO] And finally, in closing this hole and then let blood directly go to the body, being
red. [BLANK_AUDIO] And this kind of technique can be very
useful for various fluid phenomena inside of your body, like
blood circulation and others. [BLANK_AUDIO] And also this technique is, can be used
for engineering systems. Like this one. [BLANK_AUDIO] And this is another example in [UNKNOWN]
so you can see how cold air and le warm air mix together
and flow. And you can test many different
configurations. [BLANK_AUDIO] And this tool can be also used for, for explanation of pollution of rivers,
and so. And so now let me describe the other
region briefly. So what we use is a hybrid fluid
simulation system. So user draws global network with local
regions. And we apply different simulation
[UNKNOWN] for different scale. Because single scale simulation can be
very slow. So, for a global network simulation, we
use simple hydraulic simulation. And therefore, individual local region, we
use hydrodynamic simulations. And so, to use a [UNKNOWN] node inflow,
and there forms a global network structure, hydraulics
compute it's pipe flow and the node pressure, and then from this node
pipe flow and node pressure, hydrodynamics computes a detailed, computes detailed
flow, inside of this region. So this is a little bit in too involved,
but let me describe the way. The first line is hydraulics simulation
for a global network. Here, input is node inflow Qn, so how much
flow comes in from the node. And then what we compute is pipe flow from
node inflow. And hydraulics is a simplified
computational method directly computed from compute from node inflow, and to get
a pipe flow. And after pipe flow, we can compute a
pressure, pressure drop at this pipe. And then from pipe pressure drop, we can compute the node pressure inside of each
node. And you can get these all information by
solving a linear global system once. It's very fast and it's very efficient. And after computing pressure node, and
[UNKNOWN] pipe flow, we now switch to our regional [INAUDIBLE] so
for each local region. We compute we divide into a lots of grid
cells like this one, and for each grade cell, we
compute pressure and velocity, and in order the compute
individual pressure and velocity, we use a very standard established fluid
equation called Navier-Stokes Equation. So this one is a little bit complicated,
but essentially this just explains the
relationship with fluid velocity and fluid pressure, you know, if there's a
huge difference in fluid pressure, and it
causes velocity, and so. And this step basically just solved this
equation times step, each time step on this grid cells
inside each region, to get an animation. So so original paper was published as sketch based dynamic illus, illustration
of fluid systems. And if you want to learn more about fluid animation, I recommend you to read some
text books. One example is Fluid Simulation for
Computer Graphics by Bridson. And this work is an example of illustrative animation for facilitating
understanding. And interesting early dated work is, MathPad, which takes mathematical
[INAUDIBLE] expression, and they automatically
generates animation, based on the mathematical
expression. So that's, this is the end of our second week of this Interactive Computer
Graphics course. We described dia, diagram beautification. And [INAUDIBLE] shape manipulation, and
also dynamic illustration with a fluid
simulation. Thank you.