[MUSIC] Hello, welcome back. In this lesson, we will learn about
common security approaches and protocols for
wireless local area networks. These approaches are based on
symmetric key cryptography. Wireless local area network,
Wireless LAN, or Wi-Fi provides more flexibility
in setting up a network system. In a cyber physical system, which may
include a very large number of sensors and actuators Wi-Fi or some other wireless technology is the most
practical means of communication, because of its cost efficiency and easier
integration with other network components. However, it can be the most
vulnerable component of a system, if it's not securely implemented. As information is transmitted through
the air, an attacker has potentially better chances to intercept the
transmission and capture sensitive data. Wired Equivalence Privacy or
WEP is a cryptographic security protocol, which was included in the I triple
E 802.11 wireless standard in 1999. WEP provides wireless security by
simulating physical access controls. However, WEP is a weak method,
and its password can be broken in a few minutes
using available hacking tools. WEP uses Rivest Cipher 4 or RC4 stream cipher for encryption. WEP was implemented in three
version with different key sizes. In each version, a 24 bit random or
pseudorandom initialization vector IV is contaminated with the key
to generate the RC4 keystream. RC4 is a simple and
fast bit-oriented stream cipher, which has demonstrated many
significant vulnerabilities. For this reason, WEP standard is not used
anymore for secure wireless communication. In order to address the problems
caused by the weaknesses of WEP, that is to improve the security of Wi-Fi, an I triple E draft standard was
developed and named 802.11i. In it's 2003 version,
the Wi-Fi Protected Access protocol or WPA was introduced as a more
secure replacement for web. Like WEP, also WPA uses the RC4
stream cipher for encryption. However in WPA
a Temporal Key Integrity Protocol or TKIP uses the hash function to
mix the initialization vector, IV with a preshared key rather than
simply concatenating them like WEP. This reduces the effectiveness
of the related key attacks. For further assurance, the size of
an initialization vector is doubled from 24 bits to 48 bits. Meaning, in practice, that the reuse time
of an initialization vector increased from a few hours of WEP
to a few hundred years. Moreover, by implementing
a packet sequence number, WPA provides protection
against reply attacks. It also provides a stronger message
integrity check called Michael compared to WEP, which uses basic CRC or
cyclic redundancy check. WPA uses the same hardware as WEP for
encryption in the access points. Despite its features also WPA suffers
from many security vulnerabilities and is currently considered
an unsecure protocol for Wi-Fi. This the block diagram
of the WPA protocol. As we discussed earlier, WPA offers
better security compared to WEP, by using a hash function for
mixing pre-shared keys and initialization vectors, devising
a sequence counter to avoid reply attacks, and using a better data
integrity check algorithm. Because of the vulnerabilities
of the WPA protocol, a new security protocol called
WPA2 was introduced in the 2004 version of the I triple E
draft standard 802.11i. It provides strong security for Wi-Fi. WPA2 is based is based on
a new encryption method called Counter Mode Cipher Block Chaining Message
Authentication Code Protocol or CCMP, which uses
the Advanced Encryption Standard, AES. AES is a proven strong block cipher, which was published in 2001 by National
Institute of Standards and Technology. It is still widely used. Hardware implementation of WPA2 requires additional components in wireless devices, because unlike WPA,
it cannot utilize WEP hardware. Both WPA and WPA2 offer two authentication
modes, personal and enterprise. In the personal authentication mode,
a pre-shared key is used as a password. Hence, they are vulnerable
to weak passwords. In the enterprise mode,
a more advanced authentication called extensible authentication protocol or
EAP is used. You can easily find further
information on WPA2, its related protocols and
authentication modes in the Internet. In this lesson, we learned about different
wireless LAN security mechanisms, and more specifically we learned about WEP,
WPA and WPA2 protocols. In the next video lecture, we will have
a closer look at public key cryptography. [SOUND]