[MUSIC] Hello, welcome back to the course
on web connectivity and security in cyber physical systems. This is the last lesson in the module, introduction to cyber physical
systems security and privacy. In the previous lessons of this
module we have learned about security challenges,
countermeasures, and attack models. In this video excerpt,
we will explore security and privacy issues of important real world
cyber physical systems called smart grids. The next generation of power systems
involves a variety of smart devices and technologies, such as smart meters,
smart appliances, renewable energy resources, and
energy efficiency resources. Such devices and technologies are key
components of a smart electrical grid. Security is a critical issue in smart
grids, because they involve critical power facilities through millions of
interconnected electronic devices. As you can see on the screen,
a grid of renewable energy resources, transmission lines, distribution centers, service providers, and smart electricity
consumers forms a smart grid. In order to provide a service,
information is collected and communicated between the components through
a distributed and hierarchical network. Reliability, safety, and
usability of these services are highly dependent on security
of smart grid networks. Based on its features, the smart grid is
vulnerable to different kinds of attacks. Next, some of the most common
attack types are introduced. Like many other networks
also the smart grid suffers from denial of service attacks. These attacks can target different
layers of the smart grid network in different ways. In the physical layer, channel jamming
is the most common attack type, especially in wireless communication. Since it's easier for an attacker to
intercept wireless communication channels than authenticated networks. In the media access control or
a MAC layer, by spoofing MAC parameters, an attacker has a better chance
to access the network in order to reduce the performance of
shared communication channels, and compromise availability and
integrity of the system. In the network and
the transport layers, denial-of-service attacks can reduce the end-to-end
communication performance. Especially worm propagation and
traffic flooding in these layers can considerably reduce the communication
speed, and thereby the overall performance of the smart grid. In the application layer, an attacker
targets machine's resources, such as CPU or I/O bandwidth by exhausting resources
of smart devices and computer systems. In a smart grid, majority of computing and communication devices are resource
constrained, and therefore, this kind of attack is very serious and
threatening for a smart grid. In addition to denial of service attacks,
which may target the availability, smart grids are also vulnerable
to some other attack types which target integrity and confidentiality
of the customer's information. For example, usage and pricing
information and also power system values, such as device readings. Such attacks are more complicated and less brute force than
denial of service attacks. The risks of integrity attacks
are very high and real. False data injection is an example
of an integrity attack, which influences both users and suppliers. In this type of attack the attacker
compromises a number of measuring devices to
inject false information. This attack can have a long-term and
heavy impact on smart grid systems, resulting in a significant
financial loss for the suppliers. On the other hand, attacks which target
the confidentiality of information are not meant to modify the information,
but to gain knowledge about
sensitive information. Eavesdropping is one of the main
attack types in this category. Targeted information is typically
a customer's account number or electricity usage. Data security and
privacy are a top concern in smart grids. Utilization of cloud computing for
data storage and processing has caused even
more problems for smart grids. Indeed, the wide range and large amount
of data originating from multiple sources makes it challenging to guarantee
data security and privacy in the grid. Especially if data, either public or
private, has multiple owners. It is more probable that personally
identifiable information will be eventually passed and
revealed if not handled carefully. This naturally compromises
the privacy of smart grid users. Similar privacy issues are also present when transforming data by
aggregating it from multiple owners. From the system performance point of view,
enforcing security and privacy measures leads to
finer granularity of data. That is more control information
is embedded in data, and this might cause unacceptable
latencies in some cases. User-centric access control approaches provide flexibility for
the users to control access to their own data,
which is stored in a shared environment. In these approaches,
the access control policies could be set to change dynamically
based on some external information, such as the social media
activities of the users. Dynamically changing
access control policies impose a high cost in terms
of system complexity. Due to its nature, the data in
the smart grid needs to be archived for a long period of time. Storing the data for a long time requires
more powerful cryptographic solutions, because a computational
ability to break cryptographic algorithms increase with time. In addition, the user's perception and
requirements for privacy can change over time. With this in mind, the system
should be designed in such a way that there is a built in tolerance for
changes in security and privacy measures for
long-term archive data. In this lesson,
which concludes the module, Introduction to Cyber-Physical Systems, Security, and Privacy,
we looked into some security issues of smart grid networks as an example
of real world cyber-physical systems. In the next module, we are going to
learn about cryptographic solutions for securing cyber physical systems. [SOUND]