[MUSIC] In this module, we are touching
the basics of particle acceleration and detection techniques. In this video, we show how light
charged particles interacts with matter. These interactions are used
to detect these particles. At the end of this video, you will
know the energy loss by ionization and excitation for electrons. And the energy loss by radiation,
specific to light particles. For light particles like electrons and
positrons, things get slightly complicated. The formula for dE/dx is similar 
to that for heavy particles. But the special properties of scattering
between electrons, the Møller scattering, and between electrons and
positrons, Bhabha scattering, come in. The difference between dE/dx for electrons and positrons is however not very large. But there is an important difference
between light and heavy particles. Since light projectiles and
atomic electrons are of comparable mass, interaction with atomic
electrons causes bremsstrahlung. The energy loss, dE/dx by this process, is proportional
to the energy of the projectile. The material properties that
come into play can be combined into a single constant,
the radiation length X_0. By integrating the energy loss, we can calculate the remaining energy,
E(x) of the electron. It is a function which
decreases exponentially with the penetrated material depth x. The radiation length is then given as
the path length after which the energy of the projectile is
reduced by a factor of e. To obtain the energy loss, dE/dx, or the radiation length in terms of
the target surface density, one must take into action the volume
density of rho of the material. Many material properties are tabulated
by the Particle Data Group, particularly the volume density and
the radiation length, that you can find on the web page
quoted here at the bottom of the page. A property specific to positrons
is that they can annihilate with atomic electrons of the material. This process is important at low
energy that is at the end of the path just before the positron stops. From annihilation at rest, two photons
are emitted back to back, each with an energy equal to the mass of the
electron, which is 511 keV. At energy above about 10 MeV,
electrons and positrons lose energy
mainly by bremsstrahlung, which dominates over ionization and
excitation. This means that many photons are produced
when high energy electrons go through matter. Those are mostly converted
into electron-positron pairs, as discussed in the next video. And these pairs will emit photons in turn. In this way, high energy electrons
generate electron photon showers in matter, which are populated by
a large number of particles. The strong interaction of hadrons with
the nuclei of the material can also cause showers called hadronic showers. These are typically less populated
at comparable energies because the lightest hadron, the pion,
has a mass of about 100 MeV. For the same reason, they are wider and
less regular than electromagnetic showers. Again, the table provided
by the Particle Data Group summarizes the properties or materials
often used in particle detectors. The characteristic lengths for nuclear interaction are typically
comparable to the radiation length for lighter materials but
much higher for heavy materials. In the next video, we will discuss in more
detail how photons interact with matter. [SOUND]