[music] hello, welcome back.
in this lesson, we will learn about common security approaches and protocols for wireless local area networks.
these approaches are based on symmetric key cryptography.
wireless local area network, wireless lan, or wi-fi provides more flexibility in setting up a network system.
in a cyber physical system, which may include a very large number of sensors and actuators wi-fi or some other wireless technology is the most practical means of communication, because of its cost efficiency and easier integration with other network components.
however, it can be the most vulnerable component of a system, if it's not securely implemented.
as information is transmitted through the air, an attacker has potentially better chances to intercept the transmission and capture sensitive data.
wired equivalence privacy or wep is a cryptographic security protocol, which was included in the i triple e 802.11 wireless standard in 1999. wep provides wireless security by simulating physical access controls.
however, wep is a weak method, and its password can be broken in a few minutes using available hacking tools.
wep uses rivest cipher 4 or rc4 stream cipher for encryption.
wep was implemented in three version with different key sizes.
in each version, a 24 bit random or pseudorandom initialization vector iv is contaminated with the key to generate the rc4 keystream.
rc4 is a simple and fast bit-oriented stream cipher, which has demonstrated many significant vulnerabilities.
for this reason, wep standard is not used anymore for secure wireless communication.
in order to address the problems caused by the weaknesses of wep, that is to improve the security of wi-fi, an i triple e draft standard was developed and named 802.11i.
in it's 2003 version, the wi-fi protected access protocol or wpa was introduced as a more secure replacement for web.
like wep, also wpa uses the rc4 stream cipher for encryption.
however in wpa a temporal key integrity protocol or tkip uses the hash function to mix the initialization vector, iv with a preshared key rather than simply concatenating them like wep.
this reduces the effectiveness of the related key attacks.
for further assurance, the size of an initialization vector is doubled from 24 bits to 48 bits.
meaning, in practice, that the reuse time of an initialization vector increased from a few hours of wep to a few hundred years.
moreover, by implementing a packet sequence number, wpa provides protection against reply attacks.
it also provides a stronger message integrity check called michael compared to wep, which uses basic crc or cyclic redundancy check.
wpa uses the same hardware as wep for encryption in the access points.
despite its features also wpa suffers from many security vulnerabilities and is currently considered an unsecure protocol for wi-fi.
this the block diagram of the wpa protocol.
as we discussed earlier, wpa offers better security compared to wep, by using a hash function for mixing pre-shared keys and initialization vectors, devising a sequence counter to avoid reply attacks, and using a better data integrity check algorithm.
because of the vulnerabilities of the wpa protocol, a new security protocol called wpa2 was introduced in the 2004 version of the i triple e draft standard 802.11i.
it provides strong security for wi-fi.
wpa2 is based is based on a new encryption method called counter mode cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol or ccmp, which uses the advanced encryption standard, aes.
aes is a proven strong block cipher, which was published in 2001 by national institute of standards and technology.
it is still widely used.
hardware implementation of wpa2 requires additional components in wireless devices, because unlike wpa, it cannot utilize wep hardware.
both wpa and wpa2 offer two authentication modes, personal and enterprise.
in the personal authentication mode, a pre-shared key is used as a password.
hence, they are vulnerable to weak passwords.
in the enterprise mode, a more advanced authentication called extensible authentication protocol or eap is used.
you can easily find further information on wpa2, its related protocols and authentication modes in the internet.
in this lesson, we learned about different wireless lan security mechanisms, and more specifically we learned about wep, wpa and wpa2 protocols.
in the next video lecture, we will have a closer look at public key cryptography.
[sound]
