in addition to storing your data securely, you should also make sure that you backup regularly.
keeping backups is probably the single most important data management task.
there's a real risk of loss through hard drive failure or accidental deletion.
the basic 3-2-1 principle of backup is that you have three copies of your files on at least two different media with one offsite.
you should also test your backups regularly to make sure that you could restore from them if needed.
there's a long list of questions you should ask when considering your backup strategy.
how will you back up your data?
how regularly will backups be made?
will all the data be backed up, or just that which has been changed?
a backup of changed data is known as an incremental backup.
while a backup of all data is known as a full backup.
how often will full and incremental backups be made?
how long will your backups be stored?
how much drive space or how many cds or dvds will be required to maintain this backup schedule?
and how can you keep track of different versions of data, especially when backing up to multiple devices?
once you understand what you require in terms of backup, check what services are available to meet these needs.
it's also important to ascertain the backup schedule and retention policies of any centralized backup services you may use.
for example, under the grandfather, father, son, rotation scheme, files may only be available for two to three months before the storage space is overwritten.
there are various cloud services that you can use to backup your data.
these typically allow you to store and synchronize your files online and between computers.
most offer a limited amount of space for free and will charge you for additional storage or premium services.
common service providers are dropbox, google drive and onedrive.
you can take a look at wikipedia, which has a through comparison.
there are some obvious advantages to using cloud services for backup.
no user intervention is required, so you don't need to change tapes, label cd's or perform other manual tasks.
they provide a remote offsite backup copy.
most provide encryption and versioning, and they're multi-platform.
there are, however, significant risks to using cloud services.
some providers may store data outside of the european economic area, so you may be in breach of the european data protection directive, or your research funder's policy.
restoration of the data may be slow depending on your bandwidth.
the stored data may not be entirely private if it's unencrypted, and the service provider may go out of business.
