we recommended that you encrypt your data a few times in the last section, so what do we mean by data encryption?
encryption is the process of converting your data into an unreadable code.
a user would need the encryption key or secure password in order to read the file.
encryption will protect your data from disclosure, in the case that your laptop or storage device is lost or stolen.
the university of edinburgh data encryption policy, warns that medium or high risk personal data or business information must be encrypted if it leaves the university environment.
encryption is reliant on the creation of a strong password.
the data can't be recovered if this encryption key is lost.
so you should establish a reliable and secure backup procedure for the data and any associated passwords.
encryption is an obvious step for laptop security, however there's no one size fits all solution.
bitlocker, pretty good privacy.
and other commercial software packages are available, but you'll need to consider your operating system.
if you keep sensitive data on usb flash drives, it's recommended that you use drives with encryption software.
these give protection to the data if the drive is lost.
especially if the data contained personal or commercially sensitive information.
compared with ordinary usb flash drives, they only cost a modest amount more, so are a good buy.
your local it support service should be happy to advise on the suitability of any encrypted flash drive that you plan on purchasing.
so what happens to sensitive data when it's no longer required?
you may have anonymized your data and now want to dispose of the identifiable portions, or you may have agreed to delete your data at the end of your research project.
file deletion is not enough to completely remove sensitive data from your computer, it only removes the pointers to the disk sectors in which the data reside.
the deleted files can be easily recovered with commonly available software.
so let's take a look at how you can permanently remove sensitive data.
there are three main options available.
data erasure, also known as data clearing or data wiping, uses special software to remove all data, while leaving the hard drive or storage medium still operable.
however, you should be aware that current techniques may not be completely successful on solid-state drives and usb flash drives.
degaussing is another way to remove data, it disturbs the alignment of magnetic storage media.
but in many cases, it makes new media such as hard drives and tapes unusable.
physical destruction through shredding, pulverising or incineration is also an option.
you've now completed this module.
if you take a look at the further reading on the next slide, you'll get additional references and resources, so you can learn more about storage, backup, and security.
