[MUSIC] Now it's time to discuss a very
important topic that is near and dear to the hearts and
minds of information professionals. Metadata, as you learned in
a previous module metadata is often defined as data about data. More specifically and more accurately,
metadata refers to structured information that describes, explains, locates or
otherwise represents something else. Metadata, which is preserved along side
the data makes it possible to retrieve, use or manage an information resource. Metadata is necessary for
resource discovery, organization of electronic resources,
interoperability across systems, digital identification of data and
archiving and preserving data. Metadata comes in three forms. Descriptive, administrative and
structural. Descriptive metadata describes a work for
the purposes of discovery and identification. Descriptive metadata includes information
such as the title, author and abstract. This is the type of information
that makes it possible to find the data you're looking for. And to verify that what you've
found is indeed what you need. The Dublin Core Metadata Element Set
is often considered core metadata or simple and concise resource description. Administrative metadata is structured
information regarding the management and tracking of data over a period of time. It may tell us the file type,
when the file was created and who was permitted to access and
use the data file. Administrative metadata
can be one of two types, rights management or
preservation metadata. Rights management metadata deals
with intellectual property rights. Preservation metadata records information
necessary to properly archive and preserve digital materials. PREMIS, which stands for Preservation
Metadata Implementation Strategies, is a widely adopted metadata standard. That includes both rights management and
preservation metadata. PREMIS defines in the data dictionary
what repository should know about the intellectual entities,
objects, agents, events and rights associated with
the preservation landscape. Structural metadata describes the physical
or logical structure of digital objects. For data, structural metadata
indicates how data elements are assembled into a single data set. For instance, a typical data set
has a set of variables and values. For a set of observations, structural
metadata allows us to understand how these pieces are packaged
within the dataset. The Data Documentation Initiative or DDI, metadata specification,
includes structural metadata elements that allow us to describe social
science data at the variable level. These elements include variable
identification, value categories and location of variables
within the larger data set. Many metadata standards also
specify formatting conventions and control vocabularies for metadata entries. Have you ever tried to find
something in a database or some other information resource? But when you performed a search,
your query returned no results, even though you knew for
sure the information was in there? It happens all the time and
bad metadata was likely to blame. Good metadata are based on metadata
standards, which often require adherence to specific representation
rules and controlled vocabularies. Representation rules dictate
character formatting to ensure consistency in data entry. For example data sites
representation rules requires that in the creator name element the name be
entered with the family name first and the given name after. John Smith should be entered as Smith,
John. Controlled vocabularies prescribe
an authoritative list of terms to be used to express values and
metadata elements. DDI's controlled vocabulary provides
a list of terms to be used in DDI metadata elements. Any time of formal entity whether
it be in the association, business, political party or school. Should be referred to as organization
in the DDI analysis unit element. Good standardized meta data also allows
multiple systems with different hardware and software platforms. Data structures and interfaces to exchange data with a minimal
loss of content and functionality. The open archive initiative protocol for
metadata harvesting, or OAI-PMH, demonstrates how standardized metadata
can be shared across distributed systems. OAI-PMH is a low entry
interoperability framework that facilitates the efficient
dissemination of digital materials. It allows one system to grab or
harvest the metadata from multiple repositories to make the data
searchable from a single interface. OAI-PMH submits one of
seven HTTP requests which returns an XML metadata file
with the requests records. The success of this is very much
dependent upon good metadata. To review, good metadata is standardized,
consistent and interoperable, and facilitates discovery,
preservation and archiving of data. [MUSIC]