so welcome to module 5 of the course,  control of mobile robots.
so far the first 2 modules were kind of  introductions to the topic and the  previous 2 modules they went rather  deeply into the issue of, control the  sign for linear time in variant systems.
and we ended the last module on a high  note.
which showed that we could do rather  remarkable things, like make a humanoid  robot wave in, exciting ways.
using, control of linear time in variant  systems.
now, unfortunately, the world isn't that  easy.
and especially, the robotic world is not  that easy.
so this entire module is devoted to how  do we take module 4.  and make it cope with the realities of  the world in which robots are embedded.
then in module 6, we're actually going to  go full force robotics, 100%.
and this module can be thought of as the  glue module between linear systems and  actual robotics.
and in fact, the title of this lecture  is, switches everywhere, because so far  the modules, or models have been the same  all the time, and in fact, because the  models are the same, we design a size  fits all type of controller.
the way we've kind of messed with the  controllers, is by changing the, the,  reference values to some desired angles  for the....  this humanoid robot, or desired  velocities and angular velocities for the  segue robot.
but, it's certainly not always true that  the models never change in the real  world.
and, this is never true in robotics,  unfortunately.
in fact, if you recall, what we talked  about in module 2.  we talked about something called behavior  based control.
where the robot switches between  different modes of operation, or  behaviors, in response to what the world  throws at you.
you see an obstacle, you switch to avoid  that obstacle.
if you, need to go recharge you switch to  a, let's look for outlets behavior.
so what we need to do is somehow come to  grips, or terms with this reality.
and that is how we're going to start this  module.
the first thing to note is that in the  world there are switches everywhere.
so here, over on our left, is a bipedal  walking robot.
well, bipedal walking robots have a leg  that's swinging, has one dynamics, and  then bam, the ro, the leg is on the  ground, now the dynamics changed.
so because of the fact that the dynamics  changes.
depending on whether or not you're in the  swing face, or the stance face.
the dynamics is different.
here, i drew a cartoon of a bouncing  ball.
well, it has 2 modes.
it's in the air, [sound].
and then it bounces.
something new happens.
the b-, the ball gets squished, and then  it releases again.
so, there.
we have switches.
i actually included this wonderful  picture of locusts because i have  actually worked on locusts.
these locusts don't bother anyone during  what's called a solitary mode.
and then something happens and they  switch to a gregarious mode where they  lump together and devastate harvests  everywhere.
and this is a transition that occurs  because of a lack of food, for instance.
but in the, all of these cases, these are  naturally occurring switches that our  models have to take into account.
now, from a robotics point of view, it  may be slightly more relevant to look at  switches by design instead of doing it by  necessity.
so here is a gear box to a car.
we're switching between different gears  because we want the car to run more  smoothly at different rpm's.
so we're switching the dynamics not  because we have to but because it's  better.
here, this is a, a cockpit.
it's supposed to be representing an  autopilot on an aircraft where you're  switching between cruise climb turn land  takeoff modes.
so, instead of designing 1 controller  that takes me from atlanta, georgia to  stockholm, sweden.
you have a bunch of different controllers  that you're switching through in order to  do this.
and at the bottom here, we have a sensor  network.
where, in order to preserve power, you're  turning sensors on and off on purpose.
so, you're switching by design, rather by  necessity.
and, in robotics.
everywhere it switches by design.
this is our south driving georgia tech  car that switches between different  behaviors depending on what's happening  in the world.
here's a mobile robot that switches  between behaviors depending or not,  whether or not there are obstacles, i  wish we worked on snake robotics.
we're switching between different modes,  depending on what is going on in the  environment.
this is a friend in now, this is the  sensor network, and this is the aerial  robot that we've seen, and we're going to  see more of.
in all of these cases, we're going to  have to switch in order to respond to  what the world throw's our way.
now, there are some issues that we need  to deal with.
issue number one is really how do we  model these switches?
how do we model  systems that aren't staying the same all  the time.
well, the other question then, of course,  is if these models change, what about  stability?
what about the performance?
can we go with our old methods to try to  understand this?
well, this all boils  down to the fact, that t does not go to  infinity, within a single mode.
meaning you are not staying in 1 mode  forever, and stability is defined what  happens when t goes to infinity, but t  does not go to infinity in the in,  individual mode.
so, we somewhat need to understand that.
we also have issues of compositionality.
this is fancy speak for saying, if i have  multiple modes and multiple controllers,  how do i put them together?
what is the  way in which they fit together like lego  pieces in a big lego drawing.
and, most importantly, are there traps?
are there issues that arise because of  these switches that we don't fully know  how to deal with.
now, this module will deal with all of  this, and more.
and in the next lecture, we're going to  start with the first question which is,  how do we really model hybrid or switched  systems in a systematic and coherent way?
