so, last time, we saw that it was  possible to destabilize a hybrid system  by switching between different modes even  if the different subsystems or modes were  stable or asymptotically stable  themselves.
in this lecture i want to harp on this  theme a little more and, in fact, i've  called it danger, beware!
because this is actually something that  we need to be aware of and it is not  always so easy to ensure that the overall  hybrid system is stable even if the  subsystems are unstable.
in fact, like i saw, we looked at a  counter example that allowed us to  actually destabilize, which means drive  the state off to infinity, by being  unlucky or unclever in how we  transitioned in and out of the different  modes.
so, if we ignore the resets, meaning  there are no reset maps, the state  doesn't jump when you're making  transitions, we get something called a  switch system where you have x dot if is  f(x,u) but now i have this a little sigma  index here and sigma is what's known as  the switch signal.
so, sigma is going to tell me which mode  the system is in.
so, if sigma is 1 i am in mode 1.  if sigma is 10, it's in mode 10 or if  it's p it's in mode p.  so, all i'm doing is i'm switching  between different modes and this switch  signal can be, be rather different.
it can be just random.
it can be driven by time.
it can be driven by things happening in  the state.
but it's a very general way of describing  a switch system.
now, if you have that, we can actually  talk about different kinds of stability.
and i just wanted to point out that these  things actually exist and we should be  aware of them.
the first is what's known as universal  asymptotic stability.
and universal means  that there is nothing i can do to  destabilize the system.
no matter what, this upside-down a means  for all sigma, so x will go to 0 no  matter how i switch.
that's called universal stability.
the other notion is existential  stability, which means there exists the  flipped e it's called an existential  quantifier.
it means, there exists a switch signal  that makes the system stable.
so, not all of them, but at least there  is one that makes it go down to zero.
and these are the two main ways in which  people want to deal with switch systems.
in our case, we don't have, there exists  a switch signal typically, or for all, we  have what's called hybrid stability and  that we actually have a hybrid system  that is itself generating the, the switch  signal and this is known as hybrid  stability.
so, x goes to zero, not for any all sigma  or for all sigma, but for the one that  happens to be the one that we have in our  hybrid system.
so, here are some results.
let's say that i have a hybrid system  where all the individual modes are  asymptotically stable.
well, then, can we guarantee that it is  at least existentially stable?
well,  clearly, we can, right?
because what we do is we don't switch.
if i design a switch signal that just  picks one mode and then stays with that  forever and ever and ever, well, we're  never switching but all the individual  modes are asymptotically stable so if all  the modes are asymptotically stable, we  never switch and voila,  we do have an existentially stable  system.
but, as we will have, as we have seen,  they're not always universally  asymptotically stable.
and the reason for this is well, this  counter example.
the reason is that we can actually  destabilize the system by an unfortunate  switching between the modes.
so, what do we do about this?
well, there  is something in nonlinear control known  as a common lyapunov function.
i'm not going to talk about this in this  course,  mainly because the common lyapunov  function is an elusive beast that you can  almost never find.
but theoretically, that's what you're  going to have to hunt for.
practically speaking though, what you  need to do is the following.
first, never design unstable controllers  because then you're going to be in  trouble probably, right?
so, design stabilizing controllers for  the subsystems.
and then, we design the switching logic,  meaning how are we going to switch  between the different modes and if we're  lucky or we have a lot amount of free  time on our hands, we can go find, or try  to find these common lyapunov functions.
now, like i said, finding that is really  more art than science in the sense that  it's very hard in general to find it.
so, the most important thing here is  really, we need to be aware of the fact  that stable subsystems do not ensure  asymptotic stability of the hybrid  systems.
so, we need to be aware of it and test,  test, test, test, test.
in the sense that, run it, see what  happens, do we get instabilities induced?
and if we do, we need to start messing  with our switching logic.
but this is really key and i cannot  underemphasize the testing aspect of the  hybrid system.
in fact, when people design avionics  software, for instance, the majority of  the time is spent not on test, on, on the  development of the controllers, but on  testing that the switching logic in  combination with the controllers does not  induce instability.
so, that's what we need to keep an eye  out for.
