[MUSIC] During this first model we are introducing
the objects studies in particle physics, so matter, forces and space-time. In this forth video we give an example. for calculating and measuring a cross-section for
the Rutherford experiment. This is the scattering process
which demonstrated the existence of the atomic nucleus as we know it today. The goals are to apply
the concept of cross-section, in a process that can be treated
in a semi-classical manner. And to compute an interaction rate from
the characteristics of an experiment. We will use a seminal
experiment to demonstrate, how the cross-section
serves to understand The unknow subatomic
structure of a target. Geiger and Marsden measured in
1909 the angular distribution of alpha particles 
– fully ionized He-4 – scattering off thin foils of
heavy metal like gold. The preferred model of the time for
the nucleus and for the atoms was due to Thomson 
who had discovered the electron in 1897. This model described
the atom as a homogeneous positive substance in which electrons are embedded. It thus has a very modest charge density. In this case, the alpha particles,
being much smaller than atoms, should be able to penetrate the foil
with only minor perturbation. If on the other hand, the atom consists
of a tiny, dense, and positively charged nucleus surrounded by electrons to
fill the atomic volume, as proposed by Rutherford, larger scattering
angles would be possible. As we have seen in the previous video,
the classical calculation of a cross section requires to find the relation
between the impact parameter b and the scattering angle theta. We will calculate the relation for non relativistic velocities of
the incident alpha particle. We base this calculation on three laws. The first one is Newton's law which
relates the rate at which the momentum changes to the Coulomb force between
projectile and target nucleus. It is quoted here using the variables
indicated in the sketch on the right. The second law is the conservation
of kinetic energy, characteristic for elastic scattering
on a heavy target, which does not recoil when hit by the projectile. The third one is the conservation
of angular momentum which introduces the angular velocity dgamma/dt. Combining these three equations we
obtain the relation between the impact parameter b and the scattering angle theta,
which we are looking for. If you are interested in
the details of the calculation, we refer you to the video 1.4a. Inserting our result into the general relation for the classical cross-section,
we obtained the differential cross-section for the Coulomb interaction with
a point like heavy target. The cross section is proportional to
the square products of the two charges (z Z)^2. This factor determines the order
of magnitude of the cross section. The cross section is strongly peaked in
the forward direction according to 1/sin(theta/2) to the fourth power, and inversely proportional to the square
of the kinetic energy of the projectile. These factors are due to the propagator
of the photon exchanged between the two reaction partners. These basic properties have indeed been
experimentally established by Geiger and Marsden counting the impact of
the scattered alpha particles on a screen covered
by zink sulfate. This molecule emits a small flash of
light when hit by a charged particle. The experimenters counted these flashes by
watching the screen through a microscope. Is it realistic to count
scatters by eye in such a setup? The small video 1.4b will convince
you by actually calculating the rate. So the procedure to measure a 
cross section is thus clear. One must count the rate of
interactions per second. For that we need a detector
at a distance r covering a surface
r^2 dOmega. One must then normalize the counting
rate by the maximum possible interaction rate to obtain a probability. The maximum rate is obtained when every
projectile interacts with the target. It is thus the product of
the incident rate and the surface density of
the target particles. It can also be expressed
by the flux of projectiles multiplied by the number of target
particles covered by the incident beam. The proportionality factor
between the counted rated and the maximum counted rate
is the cross section. The proportionality factor
between counting rate and cross section is called luminosity. In the laboratory frame where
the target is at rest it is given by the rate of the incoming beam times
the surface density of target particles. If you want to use the volume density of
the target you multiply by the target thickness. In the center of mass frame, where two
beams collide head-on like in a collider, the luminosity is proportional to
the population of the two beams, n_a and n_b, and to
the frequency f at which they cross. And it is inversely proportional
to the common surface S of the two beams. Counting rate and luminosity thus depend on the details of
the experiment that we are conducting. Their ratio, the cross section,
characterizes the physical process independent of these details. 
Until now we have only considered processes using the tool
kit of classical physics. But we already know that
this is not sufficient. In the next video we will show how quantum
physics approaches scattering processes. Further on we will introduce
an indispensable tool kit of particle physics, Feynman diagrams. [MUSIC]