we'll now consider the three main criteria that you need to think about when you're deciding how to name and label your research data files.
first up, is the organisation.
this is important for future access and retrieval and should take into account any file naming constraints that are applied by the system where you store your data.
second up, is the context.
this may include content specific or descriptive information, irrespective of where the data is stored.
and the third one is consistency.
you should choose a single file naming convention and apply that consistently throughout by including the same information in the same order.
so for example if you're going to use dates, you could follow a model like the iso standard, which applies four digits for the year, two for the month and two for the day, such as 20150907. whichever method you decide to adopt, just make sure you apply it consistently.
there are a number of common elements that you should consider when you're developing your file naming strategy.
these include a version number, the date of creation, the name of the creator, the description of the content, the name of the team or department associated with the data, a publication date, and a project number.
finally, you want to think about scalable your file naming policy should be.
if you want to include a project number, don't limit yourself to two digits, or you can only have 99 projects.
don't use generic file names either, that may conflict if your data were moved from one system to another.
and if your working over more than one computer, make sure your files are synchronized.
file names should outlive the original person who named the file, so your best to adopt group guidelines rather than everyone having their own procedure.
file and folder naming conventions are key to maintaining a well-organized electronic directory and drive structure.
a file name is the chief identifier for a research data file.
in most cases, the policy for file naming is left down to individuals or research groups.
there are a number of easy rules that you should be following when naming your files.
firstly, you should keep file names short and relevant.
generally about 25 characters is a sufficient length to capture enough descriptive information.
you shouldn't use special characters in a file name, as these are often use for special tasks in different operating systems.
you should use underscores instead of full stops, or spaces, and if you include dates, you should format them consistently.
never assume that a software application or instrument uses case dependency when naming and renaming your flies.
so how do you rename hundreds of files?
well most operating systems have in-built tools for file management.
there are also a number of software tools that can help you to manage your data files and folders in a more automated and consistent way through batch renaming.
batch renaming software exists for most operating systems.
there are many situations in which batch renaming may be useful.
for example, where images from digital cameras are automatically assigned base file names, consisting of lots of sequential numbers.
where proprietary software, or instrumentation generates crude, default, or multiple file names.
and where files are transferred from a system that support spaces or non-english characters, to one that doesn't.
batch renaming software can be used to substitute such characters with acceptable ones.
there are some bulk renaming tools for different operating systems listed in the mantra course.
