[MUSIC] Hello, welcome back. In this lesson, we will look into
the concept of public infrastructure, and learn about its two
important applications, namely digital signatures and
digital certificates. A public key infrastructure, or PKI, is a fundamental component of many
security protocols of the web. A PKI is a collection of all software,
hardware, people, policies, and
processes that aim to manage, generate, distribute, and revoke cryptographic
keys and digital certificates. Digital certificates
are documents that are used to prove the ownership of public keys. Public key cryptography
is a powerful tool, which is widely used in
many security solutions. One of the most important uses of
public key cryptography is to provide confidentiality for the information
in electronics communications. This is made possible
by encryption of data. Public key cryptography can also be
used for the following purposes. First, ensuring the integrity of
data in digital communication. Second, identification and authentication. Third, ensuring non-repudiation
in digital communications. Non-repudiation associates
the actions to individuals, so that they cannot deny
the actions they have performed. Fourth, facilitating
the establishment of trust between two parties that
don't know each other. Fifth, sharing a session key
in encrypted communication. As symmetric encryption is faster and
computationally simpler, the actual data is typically
encrypted using symmetric ciphers. While asymmetric or
public key ciphers are used for exchanging encryption keys of symmetric
ciphers in a communication session. Next, we are going to learn how
public key encryption is capable of providing these solutions. Along with encryption of data or session
keys, which provides confidentiality, public keys systems can also be used for
making digital signatures. Similar to normal signature on a paper,
a digital signature is a technique for providing authentication and
non-repudiation for the sender and ensuring integrity of data in
electronic communications. Let's see how a digital signature works. Suppose Alice and
Bob want to communicate with each other. Both of them have a pair of keys,
including one public key and one private key. Alice has Bob's public key. So, as she can encrypt her
message using his public key and send the encrypted message to him. As we have mentioned in another lecture,
no one, including Alice herself, can decrypt the message, except the one
who has the corresponding private key. So, Bob receives the message, and
decrypts it with his private key. In fact, anyone who has Bob's public key
will be able to communicate with him, so Bob needs to make sure that
the message was really sent by Alice. In a paper based communication,
Alice could sign the paper so that Bob could authenticate
her with her signature. Likewise in digital communication, Alice needs to associate her
digital signature with her message. To do that she computes the hash
value of the whole message, which is called message digest. Then she needs to encrypt the message
digest using her private key. The result is Alice's digital signature. The message itself is encrypted
with Bob's public key. Now she can append the digital
signature to the encrypted message and send it to Bob. Bob receives both message and
Alice's digital signature. First, he decrypts the message
using his own private key. Then he computes the message
digest of the received data, using the same hash function as Alice. Then he decrypts the digital
signature with Alice's public key and gets the message digest. He then compares the two versions of
the message digest with each other. And if they are identical, Bob can conclude that the message
has been sent by Alice. Moreover, he can also ensure
that the message has not been altered before he received it. Since Alice has signed
the message with her private key, anyone who has her public key can
verify if she has sent the message. Therefore, she will not be
able to deny her signature. This guarantees non-repudiation
of Alice's message. So, we learned how a digital signature,
which employs public key encryption, can ensure authenticity,
integrity and non-repudiation. Now, consider the same Alice and
Bob scenario. Before communication starts,
Alice needs to get Bob's public key. Imagine that before Alice has
received Bob's public key, an adversary breaks into the system and
sends Alice another public key, which he has created pretending to be Bob. So the question is, how can Alice authenticate
the public key she has received? How can she be sure that
it really belongs to Bob? Well, the solution is rather obvious. Alice can rely on a trusted third
party to certify Bob's public key. This third party is called
a certificate authority, or CA. And the document that contains
the verified public key is called a digital certificate. CAs are usually companies that issue
certificates and charge their customers. Let's see how a digital certificate works. Suppose that Bob wants to
send his public key to Alice. Both Alice and Bob know a CA and trust it. So Bob sends his public key and his identification information to the CA. The CA verifies Bob’s identity,
and then generates a certificate, which contains Bob's public key and
some additional information. The CA signs the certificate with
its private key and sends it to Bob. Now instead of sending
the public key as such, Bob sends his public key
certificate to Alice. Alice can then check the certificate and get Bob's authentic
public key by decrypting the CA's signature in the digital
certificate with the CA's public key. The CA manages public keys
it has certified by, for example, revoking compromised keys and setting validation and
suspension periods for keys. This kind of status information
is part of a certificate. In this lesson,
we learned how public key encryption and mechanisms that use public key encryption
can ensure authenticity, integrity, non-repudiation, and establishment
of trust between two parties. In the next video lecture, we will
learn how the public key infrastructure can be used in communication security
protocols such as DLS, SSL, and DTLS. [MUSIC]