[MUSIC] In this eighth module, we are discussing
two mysterious components of the universe which are dark matter and dark. And in this third video,
we'll review dark energy. After following this video,
you will know how we know about this new form of omnipresent energy and why its
existence is still a matter of debate and what are the main
properties of dark energy. To understand the signs of
presence of dark energy, we must visit the expansion
mechanism of the universe. In the late 1920s, Hubble observed that the line spectra
of distant galaxies are red shifted. This is because of the Doppler effect
association with the recession velocity v. The wavelength lambda prime observed on
Earth is offset with respect to lambda, the wavelength in the rest frame of the emitter.
The red shift parameter is called z, equal to ∆lambda/lambda. Using the redshift to measure the velocity
v, and the magnitude as an estimator of the distance r to the emitter, one empirically
observes Hubble’s law, v = Hr. Recessional velocities are,
thus, proportional to distance with a coefficient called
the Hubble constant H. Hubble's law corresponds to a uniform
expansion of all distances including all wavelength by a factor r(t) where r_0 is the current scale at
t = t_0 which is today. Without loss of generality, we can
normalize any distance to r_0 = 1. R then becomes a
generic distance scale. The Hubble constant is given
by the relative rate of change in R, R_dot/R. Contrary to its name, H is not constant
because of the decelerating effect of gravity on the expansion of the Universe
and the accelerated effect of dark energy. Today, we find H_0 roughly equal to 70
kilometers per second per mega parsec, with an accuracy of a few percent, although the various methods for
determining this constant, give somewhat different results,
as shown in the plot on the right. One expresses large,
astronomical distances in parsec. One parsec roughly equals 
31 10^12 kilometers, and is defined as the distance at which the mean
radius of the Earth orbit around the sun subtends an angle of one arc second.
The evolution of the Universe is dominated by the action
of gravity since early in its history. It follows the solution of equations
describing general relativity. For a homogeneous and the isotropic
distribution of matter at large scales, it is described by the Friedmann equation. The first term containing Newton's
constant G_N and the mass or energy density rho of matter describes
the decelerating action of gravity. The constants K and
Lambda determine the asymptotic evolution. The cosmological constant Lambda
potentially corresponds to an energy associated with a vacuum,
the so-called dark energy. For now, we neglect this term, although it may dominate
the evolution of the Universe today. If you're interested in the motivation
behind such an equation, we recommend the small
calculation in video 8.3a. The constant K corresponds to an intrinsic curvature
of space generated by its total energy. There are three distinct cases. For K = -1, this corresponds
to a total positive energy. This case describes a so-called open
universe that extends to infinity with R-dot tending towards one for
large t. In this case, the curvature term -K/R^2 is positive. For K = +1, corresponds to
a negative total energy, a closed universe with negative curvature which extends
to a maximum radius and then shrinks. The special case,
K=0 is that of a s0-called flat universe,
where the kinetic and potential energy are equal, the total
energy and thus the curvature are zero. The rate of expansion tends towards 
R-dot = 0 on the long term. An inventory of the contents of
the Universe today shows a remarkable density similar to the density
corresponding to K = 0. So we neglect this term. Integrating the Friedmann equation for
the special case K = Lambda = 0 and in non relativistic approximation, a
simplified expansion equation is obtained. From today's value of Hubble's constant,
we can derive t_0, the age of the Universe, which
corresponds to 9.4 Gy. This is well below the edge
of the order subject we know about which varies between 11 and
14 Gy. Obviously, a negative K or a positive
value of the cosmological constant Lambda would lead to an increased t_0 
prediction by the Friedmann equation. Since K is roughly equal to 0, we need a substantial amount of dark
energy to obtain a reasonable age prediction. For K = 0 and the cosmological constant Lambda not equal to 0, the Friedmann
equation acquires the last term. It corresponds to a constant energy
density associated with the vacuum itself. This corresponding energy density
adds to the matter density as shown in the second equation. Considering the equation of state,
we see that this energy exerts an internal pressure on the expansion of the Universe
as shown by the third equation. If Lambda is larger than zero,
this pressure is negative and accelerates the expansion opposing
the decelerating action of gravity. To understand how we measure the expansion
velocity in the past, we must remember that the photons reaching us from a large
distance were issued in a distant past. By observing the red shift
of a characteristic line, we can measure the velocity
of the emitter in the past. And it can be compared to that of a closer
source from photons emitted more recently. For this,
we need an estimate of the distance z, which is independent of the red shift. The observed flux F, of photons, can be
converted into the luminosity distance, D_L, if the emitted luminosity L is known. The luminosity distance is related
to the astronomical magnitude m, by the numerical conversion
given in this formula. For non relativistic recessional velocity,
we have v roughly equal to z. For a constant Hubble parameter,
we thus expect a relationship m(z) = a + b log10(z), between
the magnitude m and the red shift z. Provided one can identify a standard kind
of source with constant emitted luminosity L, one can then find a sample of m_i
at sufficiently different z_i and test this proportionality. Thermonuclear explosions of type 1A
supernova are such a standard candle. Their brightness can be derived from
the properties of the light curve, i.e. the photon flux over time. Measurement results are shown here,
with the log of the red shift, ie, the recessional velocity as the ordinate,
and the magnitude as the abscissa. Turns out, that for
large distances, the recession of velocity is always less than what is
expected for a Lambda equal to zero. The expansion of the universe
is accelerating. It is now faster than it was in the past. For this discovery,
Perlmutter, Schmidt and Riess have received the 2011
physics Nobel Prize. But a word of caution is required here. The methodology providing evidence for dark energy is continuously
under scrutiny. In a recent paper, Subir Sarkar and his collaborators
have analyzed a larger sample of sources. This plot shows the difference of
the measurements from the the straight line in the
magnitude red shift relation that we've shown in the previous slide. It is clear that the spread of the data
is comparable if not greater than the expected effect of dark energy
indicated by the blue line. No dark energy corresponds
to the dashed red line. Th authors conclude that a Universe
without dark energy is improbable of the order of 0.3% but
it is not impossible. The universe today therefore probably
consists of 26.8% Dark Matter, 68.3% Dark Energy totalling 95.1%. This leaves place for no
more than 4.9% of ordinary matter. The density of dark energy is very low. It's of the order of 
6 10^-27 kilograms per cubic meter, such that the total Solar system up to the
orbit of Pluto contains only a negligible amount compared to the Solar mass. But since the distribution is uniform, dark energy dominates the evolution of
the Universe at the cosmological scale. Different forms of dark
energy have been proposed. And energy density, filling space
homogeneously, like a cosmological constant Lambda or custom designed scalar of fields
which generate this effect dynamically. For a more in-depth
discussion of dark energy, I refer to the article by Ruth Durer
cited at the bottom of this page. With this, we have almost concluded
our tour of subatomic physics. If we compare to the reductionist program
of particle physics, that is to understand the complete Universe based on
its microscopic properties, we realize that we have understood a lot
about a small fraction of what's there. The many parameters of the standard model,
the masses or the Higgs couplings, the coupling
constants to forces, mixing angles, etc ought to be fixed by a more
profound layer of theory. Unknown ingredients, dark matter on
the side of matter, dark energy and inflation on the side of forces, clearly indicate that much of
the Universe remains to be discovered. And, in addition,
even how to integrate gravity into our microscopic model of
the Universe is far from clear. This leaves enough work for
future generations of physicists, and why not you? In the last video of this module, we interview Professor Ruth Durrer
about her vision of dark energy. [MUSIC]