[MUSIC] Hello, welcome back. In the previous lesson, we looked at security requirements
of cyber-physical systems. In this video lecture, we will learn
about fundamental security concepts and methods that provide security for
cyber physical systems. Confidentiality is one of the most
important aspect of security. Confidentiality refers to
protecting personal privacy and proprietary information
from unauthorized access. It is very important to protect such
information from being disclosed to people who are not eligible to access it. In most of the cases, confidentiality
is roughly equivalent to privacy. In cyber-physical systems due to
the heterogeneous nature of the system and physically observable outputs or
events, information flow is complex, resulting in a greater risk of
confidentiality and privacy violations. Encryption is one of the most
efficient methods of protecting confidentiality of data in systems. Cryptographic solutions, however,
involves complex computations that require sufficient amount of computing
power to be applicable in the system. Using encryption in cyber-physical
systems has some restrictions due to limited computing and
storage capacity of devices. And in some cases,
also limited energy available for devices. So in order to deal with this problem, lightweight cryptographic
mechanisms should be applied. Data and cyber-physical systems must
be encrypted when it is stored or transferred. In addition to encrypting data, it is
also important to limit access to data. The proper access control system will
guarantee that data is accessible only to authorized people or devices. Besides controlling logical access to
computings, resources, network and data. Also physical access to system components,
such as computing hardware, sensors, actuators and even monitor environment
if possible needs to be restricted. Logical access control is accomplished
by an access control policy. Some well-known access control policies
are Role Based Access Control or RBAC. Mandatory Access Control or MAC and
Identity based Access Control or IBAC. Confidentiality could be
compromised in different ways. For example, a physical network
line could be attacked by wire tapping the line to monitor and
record network communication. In this case,
if the communication is not encrypted, the data will be accessible
to the attacker. A password attack is another
type of confidentiality attack, which exploits passwords using
different cracking tools. Such tools try several different
combinations of most commonly used words to crack a password. This is why choosing a strong
password is very important. A strong password is more
difficult to crack for the tools. You can find some good tips on choosing
a strong password on the internet. Phishing or pharming is another
way of acquiring passwords and other sensitive information. In a phishing attack,
the victim receives an email or another type of message that appears
to be send by unknown contact. The email might contain malware
infected attachments or provide a link to a fake looking page Integrity is another aspect of security. Integrity involves maintaining
the consistency, accuracy and trustworthiness of data
over its entire lifecycle. Integrity ensures that information is
not modified by unauthorized entities. In addition to data,
integrity is also required for physical components of systems. Physical integrity of
a system ensures that the physical devices composing
a system cannot be modified. Tamper proof hardware is one way
of ensuring physical integrity in cyber-physical systems. Such hardware is resistant against
tampering or deliver a changes. Physical tamper resistant systems
are developed to process or store critical information. One way of ensuring data
integrity is hashing. Hashing is transforming a large
amount of data, for example, text into a short and a fixed length
piece of data called a hash value. The idea is that the initial data cannot
be obtained based on the hash value. This means that the hash function
which does the transformation is a one way algorithm. If a single bit is changed in data, the hash function will probably use
a totally different hash value. In order to ensure integrity of data,
the hash value of data is computed and kept secret. To check if data has been
modified at some point, the hash value is computed and
compared to the initial hash value. If the two hash values are identical,
then the data has not been altered. Another aspect of integrity
is configuration integrity. We assume here that a system has
a set of functional parameters that can take different values in
different operating scenarios. For example, a sensor could be set
to be read every ten seconds or data could be set to be streamed to
the cloud sever every five minutes. If such configuration
parameters are tampered with, the system may behave unexpectedly or
even crash. Therefore, configuration integrity
is a very important requirement for security of cyber-physical systems. A reliable way of ensuring
configuration integrity is to implement a dedicated secure configuration
management system. Code integrity is also
of utmost importance. It means ensuring that the embedded
program code running on the components of the system
cannot be altered by an attacker. Software at this station is a challenge
response technique that enables checking the integrity of the memory contents of
devices against malicious modifications. It could be used, for example, to verify
code integrity of sensors and actuators. Integrity attacks can have a significant
impact on cyber-physical system. A single integrity attack might
be a minor attack, as such. But if it runs over a long period of time
or on multiple devices simultaneously, it results in a larger and
severe attack overall. For example, in a salami attack, only various small changes
are made at the time. But if such small changes are made
in a large amount of data or devices, it will have a severe impact. A man-in-the-middle attack is another
type of integrity attack in which the attacker tries to intercept
the communication between two devices in order to manipulate data. The man-in-the-middle attack can also
be considered a confidentiality attack. Availability is another important
aspect of information security in cyber-physical systems. Availability refers to ensuring
that authorized parties are able to access information and
resources whenever needed. This means that all components
of a cyber-physical system, including the sensors, actuators,
computing and storage systems, security solutions and communication
channels must be functioning correctly, so that the system is
available when needed. In critical applications, systems need
to be available basically all the time. In some critical systems, the tolerated system downtime
can be less than a few seconds. Imagine the impact of an interruption
caused by availability attacks to a critical infrastructure,
such as a nuclear power plant. Availability attacks can target
different parts of the system. Regarding cyber-physical systems,
availability attacks can be highly critical, because of the unsupervised and
autonomous nature of such systems. The most common availability attack is
called a Denial of Service attack or DoS attack. DDoS attack, which stands for Distributed Denial of Service attack
is a more advanced form of DoS attack. It is carried out from multiple sources,
simultaneously. DDoS has a higher impact and
is more difficult to track, and tackle. Another way of attacking availability
of a system is to interrupt electrical power of the system. Lastly, since several physical systems
are exposed to physical environments and interact with them,
physical protection of these systems is also very important to
avoid availability problems. In this lesson, we discuss the basic security
concepts in cyber-physical systems. Namely, confidentiality,
integrity and availability. We also learn about potential
attacks against them. In the next video lecture, we will learn more about attack modules
in the cyber-physical systems context. [MUSIC]