[MUSIC] In this sixth module, we've been
discussing weak interactions and we now turn to the Higg's mechanism. In this 11th video we will introduce the
dynamic generation of particle masses by this mechanism. After following this video you will
know how to argue that mass cannot be an intrinsic property of particles. How what is called mass can be
dynamically generated and how the Higgs mechanism implements this through the interaction of particles
where the omnipresent Higgs field. And finally you will know
qualitatively how particles evolve in a vacuum filled with the Higgs field. What is the mass of an object? There are two phenomena connected to mass. First, mass is the property of
an object which opposes itself to acceleration according to Newton's Law. This is called the inertial mass. At the same time, it is the property of an object which allows it to
attract other bodies by gravity. This is called the gravitational mass. It is the equality of these two properties
which led Einstein to formulate general relativity, the only theory
of gravitation known today. But it is only the inertial
mass which is of interest here, the gravitational interaction is too
weak to matter at the subatomic level. One measures the mass of a particle by
observing the energy that it takes to create it at rest or by observing
the invariant mass of its decay products, or by observing its
velocity at a given energy. It is in fact this last property
of the mass that we must retain. Mass is the property that keeps particles
from moving at the speed of light, no matter how energetic they are. The particle spectrum that you see in this
graph is extremely large both as far as matter is concerned, with the neutrino
weighing on the order of a milli-electronvolt, and up to the top mass,
which is about 170 GeV. This is also true for forces, where the mass of the photon and
of the gluon is zero. And the spectrum goes up to the Z and
W mass of 90 and 80 GeV, respectively. We believed, me and probably also you, that
the mass of elementary particles, quarks and leptons, and gauge bosons,
was one of their intrinsic properties, like the electric charge,
the color, the flavor, the baryon and the lepton number. 
But this is not true. Mass is the product of a dynamic process without which the mass of all the
ingredients of the universe would be zero. Let us trace back the origin of
mass across different scales. For ordinary matter, solids,
liquids, and gasses, the mass is to a good approximation equal to
the sum of the masses of the atoms. The cohesive energy for
example in a crystal is between one and ten electron volts per atom which is
small compared to the mass of the atoms. The mass of an atom is also pretty much
equal to the sum of the masses of its electrons and its nucleus. The atomic binding energy is of the order
of 5 to 25 eV per electron, small compared to the mass of the nucleus. This reasoning continues to
be true at the nuclear level. The nuclear mass is not far below
the sum of the masses of its nucleons, but with a more important binding energy
obviously. As we have seen in module 2, the binding energies of the order of
eight MeV per nucleon, but it is still small compared to
the mass of the nucleon itself, which is of the order
of GeV volts. In summary, the mass of the matter
in the universe is dominated by the mass of the protons, the neutrons,
and the electrons which populate it. But at the scale of the nucleon
itself this reasoning does not work. Proton and neutron contain low
mass quarks and massless gluons. The nucleon mass is dominated
by their binding energy, it already has a dynamic origin. But quarks and electrons do not have
binding energy because they are as far as we know point-like particles. They have no substructure so
there is no binding energy involved. So at least for them could mass
not be an intrinsic property? The answer is no. And the reason for this is quite subtle
and fundamental at the same time. Continuous symmetries are closely
linked to the conservation of a physical quantity by Noether's theorem. You see Amalie Emmy Noether
on this photograph. In particular gauge symmetry, the invariance of observables relative
to a local phase change of the field, is the basis of the standard model of
electro-weak and strong interactions. Gauge symmetry is in fact necessary to
ensure the regularization of infinities in the field theory, allowing to
absorb them into measured quantities. Without this possibility the standard
model would not make any predictions, yet it agrees with experiment everywhere. On the other hand, an intrinsic
particle mass –for matter as well as for forces – violates gauge symmetry. For a massive field we do not have
the freedom to change its gauge. In other words, the fact that all
generations of matter in all families have a different and non zero mass, and the fact that M_Z and
M_W are not equal to the photon mass, namely not equal to zero,
violate gauge symmetry. Consequently mass must come
from a dynamic process instead of being an intrinsic property
that particles are born with. Why can we not simply treat the t
quark as a heavy u quark and the Z boson as a heavy photon? The problem comes from
the propagation probability of heavy bosons. The probability amplitude for the exchange
of a zero-mass photon between two vertices is proportional to 1/q^2
with q the four-momentum of the photon. This amplitude is thus inversely
proportional to the invariant mass squared of the virtual photon that has
a pole at q^2 = 0, the mass of the real photon. The amplitude gently tends to zero for
q^2 going to infinity. For massive bosons, on the contrary, the propagator amplitude is proportional
to 1/(q^2 - M^2). It has a pole at q^2 = M^2. For ordinary reactions, this does
not cause problems to first order, because they occur at a fixed q^2. However, this propagator causes serious
problems for higher order processes, as in the case of two boson exchange
shown in this Feynman graph. Inside this square loop, conservation of energy momentum
does not limit the circulating four-momentum. Any q of one boson is
compensated by -q of the other. To obtain the full amplitude of this
process, one must integrate over this internal momentum to infinity,
and this interval diverges. The same is true for the propagator
of the virtual fermion in the loop. A finite mass will make
the amplitude diverge. The intrinsic mass of bosons and fermions, which destroyed the gage symmetry
of the theory, thus also makes it unusable. Both facts are indeed intimately linked,
as was shown by 't Hooft and Veltman, which were decorated by the
Nobel Prize for this discovery in 1999. This is not the case, however,
if mass is a dynamical phenomenon. The Higgs mechanism invokes a scalar
field to keep particles from moving at the speed of light. This way they appear massive to us,
even though they aren't. If massive fields are incompatible
with the gauge symmetry, then the opposite should also be true. Symmetry breaking should make
an originally massless field massive. To understand this intuitively,
we again use a mechanical analogy. Imagine an infinitely fine
needle as shown in this picture, it has no momentum of
inertia about its axis. Now we apply a coaxial force beyond
the elastic limit of the needle. At first, nothing will happen. The system remains in
unstable equilibrium. Through a small quantum fluctuation in
the crystal lattice of the needle, it weakens in a random place, and
the needle folds in a random direction. The cylindrical symmetry of the system
has spontaneously disappeared. At the same time, a moment of inertia
about the original axis has appeared. The system has acquired a kind
of mass it did not have before. In a quantum field theory, a similar
effect occurs if the ground state of a system does not possess a symmetry
that is present for the system in general. Let us consider a system with
a single complex field Phi where the minimum of the energy. The energy's plotted here as
a function of the real part of Phi and the imaginary part of Phi, where the minimum of energy does
not match Phi= 0, but occurs for all states with 
Phi^2 = v, not equal to 0. The ground state of such
a system is not the vacuum, with all fields equal to 0, but
a space time filled with Phi everywhere. If we want to do a perturbative
calculation in such a vacuum, we need to choose the minimum of the
energy around which we develop the states. By choosing a specific value
of Phi as the ground state – with Phi^2 = v because
that is the minimum of the energy – one breaks the symmetry with
respect to the phase of Phi. This is called spontaneous
symmetry breaking. At the same time, the field Phi itself and any other field interacting
with it acquires mass. We call such a field Phi a Higgs field. How does a particle move in a vacuum
filled with the Higgs field? All fields which interact with the field
Phi with a given coupling constant are constantly kept from moving freely. They propagate like in a viscous liquid. Their speed is lower than c. They have a mass they would not have in
a real vacuum with the Higgs field absent. Let me demonstrate this effect
by again a mechanical analogy. I have here two test tubes. One filled with water,
one filled with olive oil. If we look at balls falling
through the liquid – here there are two balls in
the liquid, one is a clay ball the other one is a steel ball – we of course
see that they fall with a different speed, because they have a different
interaction with the liquid. The porous surface of the clay ball
makes it fall much slower than the smooth steel ball. So this would correspond to different
particles moving in a viscous liquid, so that they do not fall
at the speed of free fall. If we change the liquid, in other words,
if we make a stronger Higgs field, both balls will fall more slowly but it is still true that their individual
speed, their individual apparent mass, is given by their coupling to the field,
by the coupling to the liquid. So this is analogous to
the Higgs mechanism. The strength of interaction, the strength
of presence of the Higgs field is analogous to
the properties of the liquid and the coupling of the different particles to
the Higgs field determine with what speed they move, even though their mass is zero. So the mass of particles is given by their
coupling constant with the Higgs field. It is dynamically generated through
interactions with this ubiquitous field. In the next video, we will discuss
the quanta of the Higgs field, the Higgs bosons. [MUSIC]