[MUSIC] In the sixth module we
are discussing weak interactions. And in this eighth video, we will
talk about the violation of the CP symmetry between particles and
antiparticles by weak interactions. After following this video you will
be able to describe the condition for oscillation between particles and
antiparticles and their mechanism. And you will be able to explain
the violation of the joint symmetry CP in the quark sector. The Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix must
be unitary but not necessarily real. This allows a non-trivial complex
phase which cannot be removed by a global rotation in flavor space. The existence of such
a phase has very important consequences that we will
discuss in the following. But first a reminder.
We already saw in video 6.3, that the weak interaction
maximally violates parity P. A good example is the π+ decay. The dominant decay channel is 
π+ -> µ+ nu_µ. The neutrino produced in the decay
must be left-handed because of the structure of the interaction. As the pion is a scalar particle,
the µ+ must also be left-handed. Which is allowed to the extent that is mass is non-negligible and
allows it to have the « wrong » helicity. The mirror decay, on the contrary, which will produce µ+ of the 
« correct » helicity is not observed at all, because the W does not interact
with right-handed neutrinos. This explains why the decay into
an electron, π+ goes to electron and a left-handed electron neutrino is so
much this disfavored, despite it's much larger
phase space factor. The small mass of the electron requires
it much more to have the « correct » helicity and thus suppresses
the amplitude of this process. The decay of the charged pion
violates at the same time the charge conjugation symmetry C. Under this operation we obtain
a reaction that is forbidden by the fact that the the W does not couple at
all to left-handed antineutrinos but only to the right-handed antineutrino. Since the symmetries of C and P are both violated in a maximum
fashion by charged weak interactions, one might expect that the combined
symmetry CP will be respected. This is indeed the case in
the example shown so far. For the pion, it is simple to
verify that the operation CP converts the π+ decay
into the π- decay, with the good helicity for the neutrinos. But the bad ones for muons are admitted
because muons are non-relativistic. This processes are therefore CP
eigenstates with the same amplitude. But this is not the case for all the inter-generation weak
processes mediated by the W boson. Let's look at the neutral mesons,
like K0, which contains a d quark and an sbar quark, or B0, which
contains a d quark and a bbar quark. These can be converted into their own 
antiparticle by a second-order process. This reaction is obviously
only possible for particles that do not
carry any kind of charge. The pseudoscalar meson K0, for example,
is an eigenstate of parity but not of charge conjugation because
this operation changes strangeness. K0 contains an antiquark sbar,
so it has strangeness plus 1. K0-bar contains a quark s, so
it has strangeness -1. Therefore neither K0 nor
K0-bar are eigenstates of CP. But one can construct
linear combinations, K1 and K2, that are eigenstates of CP. If CP is conserved, it should be these two
states which decay by weak interactions. If the eigenvalue of CP were
conserved by weak interaction, the eigenstates K1 and
K2 will decay by weak forces into final states which contains two pions and
three pions, respectively. These final states have
the right CP properties. This is approximately true. The states K1 and K2 are almost
identical to the particles K0_S and K0_L found in the list
of the Particle Data Group. Because of the two very different phase
space factors, one finds that the lifetime of the K0_S is much shorter
than the one of the K0_L, which explains their name. But their identification 
K0_S almost equal to K1 and K0_L equal to K2 is not perfect. First, the two masses
are not quite the same, they differ by some µeV. The mass difference produces
oscillation between particles and antiparticles in time, because both states are not evolving
with the same velocity when their energy is the same. Imagine a K1 meson at 
t = 0 at rest in vacuum. Its wave function evolves according to
its mass am_1 and width Gamma_1. The probability density to find K1 at time
t is given by the evolution equation for free particles. The same reasoning is valid for K2 but
with mass m_2 and width Gamma_2. Since the strong interaction conserve
flavors, including strangeness, the state produced by strong
interaction will have a definite strangeness, like K0 or K0-bar. If one produces, for instance,
a K0 at t = 0, we'll have a mixture of equal
quantities of K1 and K2 at that time. Now the two components
are evolving differently because of the small
mass difference ∆m. At a later time t,
we therefore find a different mixture. If we thus measure the strangeness
of the state as a function of time, for example by a stronger interaction,
we find that it oscillates between K0 and
K0-bar with the frequency ∆m. So far the combined symmetry
CP is still respected. But one finds that
the long-lived particle, K0_L, which is almost equal to K2, has a low probability to decay into π+ π-, 
a state which has the wrong CP eigenvalue. One must thus admit that K0_L also
contains a small amplitude of K1. The coefficient epsilon
is 2.3 10^-3, which is certainly small, but not 0. Consequently, charged weak
interaction violates also the combined symmetry CP,
but only a little bit. This means that the amplitudes
of charged weak interaction for matter and
antimatter are slightly different. So nature has therefore foreseen
an objective way to distinguish them. A complex phase in
the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix allows to introduce this
little asymmetry in the mixing of quark states involved in weak interactions, with a phase angle theta,
which is about 45 degrees. This describes the phenomenon using
the CKM matrix, but does not explain it. CP violation in weak interaction
is a subject of active current research both in the kaon sector and
in the B0 sector. The next video will discuss
neutrino interactions which are among the most rare
processes in particle physics. [MUSIC]