In this module, you'll be introduced
to the concepts of documentation and data citation. By the end of the module, you'll
understand why documentation is important, and how and when to use metadata. You'll also understand
the relevance of data citation, and will learn how to do this. So why document your data? By documenting your data systematically,
you'll first and foremost help yourself. You may be very familiar with your
data when you're first creating it. But the chances that you'll remember
what all of the variables and abbreviations mean in several months or
years are slim. The importance of documenting your data
while you're creating and analyzing it, and everything is still fresh in
your mind, can't be overestimated. Others will also need good
documentation to understand your work. This is particularly important if they're
going to review your publications, try and validate your research findings, or
even use your data in new studies. Some examples of data
documentation are lab notebooks and experimental protocols,
questionnaires, codebooks, data dictionaries,
software syntax and output files. Information about your equipment
settings and calibration, database schema, methodology reports,
and provenance information. Laboratory notebooks are crucial
documents to be properly managed. They can help in asserting
intellectual property rights, and can even help you defend against
claims of scientific fraud. In less extreme circumstances, they can demonstrate adherence with
standards of good practice and ethical integrity, and show compliance
with any contractual obligations. Routine documentation of all lab work is an important responsibility
of laboratory researchers. There are three levels
of data documentation. Let's take a look at them one by one. So first up we have project
level documentation. Here you want to document
what the study set out to do, what the research questions and
hypotheses were, and what methodologies, sampling frames,
instruments, or measures were used. This information may be included in
your theses, your published articles, data papers or technical reports. Second, we have file or
database level documentation. A, you should document, how all of the files that make up
the dataset relate to one another. A readme.txt file is
a classic way of doing this. And finally, we have variable or
item level documentation. This isn't just defining the variable
names at the top of the spreadsheet file, but including a full label to explain
the meaning of that variable. In the course of publishing research,
it's essential to cite your sources. The reference list at the end of the
publication shows the credibility of your claims and also the prominence of
a particular theory or school of thought. So this is no less true for datasets than
for publications, but somehow the practice of proper data citation has been slow
to take root in academic culture. All too often we see very basic labels and
charts in publications, such as Source: OECD, without any proper
information in the references about how you can access
the underlying data.