Thank you so much for
coming to speak to us today. Could you just tell us in a couple
of sentences who you are and what you do as a researcher? What your research is about. >> Yep, my name is Natalia Calanzani, I'm a research fellow at
the University of Edinburgh. And I currently work on
the feasibility study, trying to increase the uptake
of bowel cancer screening. So that involves a database analysis but we're still waiting on our data set,
and collecting data in primary care. >> Great, can I ask what are your
strategies for file management, file naming, versioning,
just generally organizing data? And how does that help you and your
collaborator's make sense of the collected data and leave an audit trail for
yourselves? >> So, we have a server here
at the university where we store every file from the project. And only the researchers who have received
ethical approval to check those files, they can access those. And we name the files based on their
versions and the dates they were created. And we try to use underscores instead
of spaces because we know that depending on the system you're using, if
you have spaces you might have problems. And this is important for
us to be consistent but also so we make sure we're using the file
which was been approved by ethics. Because we end up having so
many different versions. So, it's good for you to keep track
of what exactly you are using. And I have to admit that we could improve
because when the file becomes obsolete we are still keeping those there so
it is quite cluttered at the moment .So we couldn't improve on that
>> Do you rely on institutional storage and back up
systems in the course of your research? And how do you know your
data are being kept secure? >> Yes, so if you're dealing with patient
data and identifiable information, it's very likely that it's going to be
mandatory for you to write forms and applications. Lots of applications explaining
how data are kept secure. And here at the university, Information Services has helped
us to develop those forms. And they have explained to us
how our data are stored, and how the backup systems worked. And they helped us develop a diagram
showing how we access data, and how the data are protected. So I think we're quite certain that
everything is well kept and protected. >> And what are some of the methods
available to you to protect patient confidentiality. >> So we for the patient databases, like I mentioned, we're not allowed to publish anything for
less than five cases. If you had less than five
cases of a rare condition or something you're not
supposed to report that. And of course, we're not allowed to copy
these data sets to our own computers. They all stay secure in the server. >> We don't copy them to SB6 as well, for
example, and that avoids a lot of issues. And only people who have received
approval to access these data sets, they access this data. In terms of the patient form that
we have that collect data and primary care practices, these are kept
locked In cabinets in our offices. >> Well, thank you very much and
good luck with your research. >> Thank you.