How does good data development
add value to research? >> One of the key issues when you plan, or design in your research project is
to have a data management plan. Students usually forget, they get so
obsessed with methodology that they forget how they're supposed to collect data,
and how to record it and keep it. One of the good things is, when you apply
for ethics, you have to think about it, which is quite helpful, but one of
the things that I always tell my students which I think is helpful
is to think about. What is your for
your data management plan? How your auditing that this actually works
because like anything else in research or even in clinical practice if
you give an intervention. If you don't know if it works, you
actually might have more harm than goods. So if we data management plan, we have
a plan how you're auditing that the data is collected as you think it is collected,
and the quality of data is good, and you will be surprised as sometimes
that even the easiest data collection, if you don't have an audit. Behind you, you might end up with errors
in it that could be later in the project. It's helpful to prevent it early on. >> As a patient I have two
views on good data management. The first view is that good data
management is keeping it safe, not giving it to people who shouldn't have
it, not leaving it around lying on trains because that's what the newspapers
tells me happens to it. It's sold to insurance companies and
goodness knows what else. So on the one hand,
that's good data management. Keeping it safe, keeping my anonymity
preserved, but on the other hand, as a patient who's had some serious
illnesses, including cancer. Good data management is actually making
sure its curated in the right way to be shared with other researchers,
especially for rare cancers, or common cancers with a rare offshoot. The only way you find out about these
illnesses, the only way we really know Know what treatments are actually going to
work, is by sharing data across patients, across countries, and
making sure it is comparable and free to everybody to use it, for
legitimate research purposes. >> So
good data management's absolutely crucial, it's an ethical responsibility that,
>> Researchers have to honor the data they've been
provided with and put it to best use. It's also efficient, not just ethical. It minimizes the wastage of money
that's been invested in the research, and not only is it ethical and
efficient, it's obligatory. [INAUDIBLE]
>> Sharing your data is really important for transparency. So if you have your data there and it's
available and it's in a usable format, then it means other people can,
not just interrogate it and kind of Look at your work more closely,
but they can also build upon it, so they can incorporate it into
their future research, or it can become part of a bigger project or
a master analysis or anything [INAUDIBLE]. It's really important to think
about how you're going to share your data with other people and
plan ahead for that.