Do you think data sharing
helps to reduce waste and increase transparency of research? >> I guess this is another
very obvious question and the answer must be yes because
we produce tons of data, which are basically just lost because
no one gets to know about it. Some of that data is useless
because we not always create data that was done rather properly and
so forth. But we have a lot of data
which is extremely useful, which goes into our reports,
into our papers. But, it's usually not the original data, it's usually just a means and
compound data. And so sharing, I think sharing
the original data that is actually what we write about,
would be extremely helpful for others to extract additional information
to answer questions that they might have, which we didn't have and so forth. Also to check on the quality of our work,
so sharing data I think is another, in a way, no brainer, but it's something
that researchers don't like to do. >> Well, I'm a big fan of data sharing and
the use of data. Because so much data is wasted, and
so much research is then wasted. And it's not just to reduce waste. We have to remember it will
increase the knowledge creation. And I'm more and more interested
in this knowledge creation story, because clinical trials are happening
all over the world, and if you can combine those data,
you get more efficient research and you can of course that's automatically
reducing waste at the same time. >> So
two areas where I've used data sharing. One is individual patient
systematic reviews, where you're doing a review of
all the studies in one area. You can use the published data for
that, but actually it's more effort but you can get a lot more done
if you use the original data. But that requires a standardization
process, cleaning up process, so you've got common outcomes, etc. The second use for data sharing
is to ask secondary questions, so quite a lot of the research I've
done has taken existing databases but asked new questions of those databases. Sometimes it's been trials that
I've been involved in personally, sometimes it's getting data sets
from other people to do that. But it means it's much easier to do that
than to spend the hundreds of thousands, if not sometimes,
millions of dollars or pounds in getting an original data set that would
have answered exactly the same question. >> So what data sharing can achieve is the ability to answer a research
question with the available data. When you don't need to go and gather any
more to actually answer the question. So for example, a systematic review and
individual patient data meta-analysis of all the available data may successfully
answer a research question without needing to get another research
grant to go and collect more data. >> And does it help transparency then? >> So what do you mean by
does it help transparency? >> Well, does it increase the transparency
of research, this sharing of data. >> Well I think so. When you share data,
you are exposing yourself to the need for external validation
by another group of researchers, so they will always,
they should always, seek to confirm that you're data show what you said they
showed when you published them initially. So I think you subject
yourself to scrutiny. And I think making it an expectation
of researchers also means that they are very careful in the way they
collect and document their research in the first place, knowing that data
sharing is one day ahead of them.