[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to this fifth module of our
introductory course to subatomic physics. In this module,
we'll discuss the structure of hadrons and strong interactions. In this first video, we discussed the elastic electromagnetic
scattering between electrons and nucleons, which is one of the ways used to
study the structure of hadrons. After following this video, you will know the main properties of
elastic scattering between fermions, and the meaning of the different terms
that enter into the cross section. The form factor concept you will know, and its interpretation,
in terms of the size of the nucleon. And you will get to know the historic experiments at the Stanford
Linear Accelerator Center in this area. When the structure of an interaction is
known, it can be used as a tool to better understand the particles
that are involved. Within this video, how elastic
electron nucleon scattering is used to determine the internal
structure of nucleons. We take advantage of the fact that
the electron as far as we know, is a point like particle in that we know
electromagnetic interactions very well. We can thus elucidate a single,
but important unknown, which is the distribution and the dynamics
of quarks inside the proton and neutron, represented by the big blue
dot in the right diagram. We’ll see in video 5.3, also, how meson resonances are formed by
an incident photon, for example. These can be used to better understand
the strong force that binds quarks and anti-quarks together. The prototype process for the scattering between point like
fermions is electron muon scattering. It is very similar to e+ e- annihilation, with the Feynman diagram
rotated by 90 degrees. We will approach this process in steps. The first step is already shown here,
since we have encountered it in the past. It is to consider scattering
of a very heavy type target, which is without structure and
without spin. Also, ignoring the spin of the incoming
electron, and neglecting its mass, we obtain the formula shown here,
the Rutherford cross section, which we already encountered in video 1.4. As usual, the factor alpha squared comes
from the two electromagnetic vertices. The denominator contains the square
of the characteristic energy. It results from the propagator of the
virtual photon, one over q^2, and you can easily verify this in
the approximation that the mass of the electron is negligible, as I did here. The angular distribution
is extremely steep for the scattering of point like particles,
and it peaks at small angles. This remains valid when including
the effect of the target recoil, and the spin of the particles. The additional term in red,
shown here with M the mass of the target, takes
into account the recoil. It is the ratio between the incident and the outgoing electron
energy E’/E. This ratio is 1 for an infinitely
heavy target, but less than 1 for an important recoil. This formula still neglects the magnetic
component of the interaction. For a point like fermion target with a
magnetic moment, µ = e/(2m). One finds the complete Mott formula
given on the bottom of the page, quoted here in the laboratory frame, and
for relativistic electron projectiles. The last term in red is
of a magnetic nature. It becomes important at high
momentum transfers q^2, much larger than the mass
of the target squared The angular distribution, still roughly
follows the form of the Rutherford formula, the third term contains sub-terms
proportional to cosine squared theta, and to sine squared theta, which reduce a little the steepness
of the angular distribution. The historic experiments on elastic
scattering between electrons and protons have been conducted at the Stanford Linear
Accelerator Center in the 1960s and 1970s. The experiment consisted
of a liquid hydrogen target bombarded by electrons
of a few hundred MeV. In the final state,
only the electron is observed, in two spectrometers positioned
at variable scattering angles. The kinematics of the hadronic
final state is then deduced from energy-momentum conservation,
assuming a target at rest. Here are some results on the cross section
as a function of the scattering angle on the left, and as a function of
the incident electron energy on the right. The measurements confirm the calculations
at these modest energies, already below one GeV. One observes a steep angular
distribution in the left plot, and a strong reduction of the cross section
with energy in the right plot, as we expected from the formulae. Let us now consider what happens if
the target is not a point-like particle. Let us first take the model of a static
charge distribution rho(x), normalized such that the charge
of the target remains elementary, which means that the integral over
rho(x) must be equal to 1. The cross section then will be
reduced with respect to a point-like target by a factor of F^2,
a so-called form factor. We have already used this concept in video
2.2, when we discussed the size of nuclei. In the static case, F is simply the Fourier transform
of the spatial charged distribution. For small momentum transfers, one can develop the form vectors
in powers of q times x. If the distribution possess
spherical symmetry, that is rho(x) is only a function of r,
and not of the spatial directions separately,
terms with odd exponent will not conribute. Thus, the form factor measures the mean
square radius of the charge distribution, <r^2>, which represents
the size of the distribution. Take, for example, an exponential
distribution as a function of distance. It leads to the so-called dipolar
form factor that is shown in the last formula on the right. It is clear that in the case of
a non-static charge distribution, things get more complicated. First, magnetic interactions come in,
since the target is moving. Second, the charge distribution
itself changes during the time represented by the time-like component
of the four-momentum transfer q_0. By the action of the moving charges
inside the distribution, electric and magnetic terms will be modified, and
their functions will in fact be mixed up. We then find the cross section
given here with the parameter tau, which is the ratio between the momentum
transfer and the target mass squared, the ratio of the two quantities,
which characterize this process. We call G_E and G_M the electric and
magnetic form factors, although the distinction between the two
obviously depends on the reference frame. In the same sense, one can attribute
G_E and G_M to the Fourier transforms of the charge and magnetic moment
distribution of the target particle, even though this interpretation is,
strictly speaking, only valid in a very
special reference frame. The form factors G_E and
G_M of the proton are measured by analyzing the differential cross sections for
the reaction e- p -> e- p, and separating the terms proportional
to cosine squared theta and sine squared theta of
the angular distribution. We observe that G_E and G_M follow
the dipolar shape, predicted for exponential charge distributions. The parameter Lambda then characterizes
the size of the distribution, and we find Lambda equal to 0.84 GeV,
in both cases. The size of the distribution is thus 
of order 1 fm and the same for electric and
magnetic form factors. Finding the same distribution for
both form factors is not a miracle. The quarks inside the nucleon are
at the origin of both charge and magnetic moment distributions,
such that we find the same distribution because they're
caused by the same ingredient. The figure shows representative
results obtained by Hoffstetter and collaborators at SLAC in the 1960s. The form factors G_E, shown on the left,
and G_M, shown on the right, for the proton are measured as a function
of the momentum transfer squared, and extracted from the cross section for
the elastic electron proton cross section. One finds the dipolar shape,
G equals one over one plus q^2 over Lambda squared, both squared, with the same
size perimeter Lambda equal to 0.84 GeV. In the next video, we will see what
happens when we increase q^2, such that the exchanged photon can excite,
or even break the nucleon. [MUSIC]