[music]
in the previous lesson, we learned
the importance of preserving data and
some key concepts involved in properly
seeing to their long-term preservation
including authenticity, integrity,
and the assignment of metadata.
now, we will go into more depth concerning
the role of trustworthy repositories and
workflows, procedures, and
best practices for archiving data.
by the end of this lesson,
you will recognize the benefits
of trustworthy repositories.
understand the role of audit
certifications in demonstrating
trustworthiness, and be able to identify
key archival standards and best practices.
because data preservation is an active and
ongoing process, data repositories
are best suited to oversee the long-term
storage and preservation of data.
there are different types of repositories,
or archives, including domain,
institutional, and location-specific,
each having special expertise.
these varying types of repositories often
have different scopes and missions.
there is no one size fits all repository,
and assessing the strengths and
weaknesses of each will help researchers
select the best home for their data.
it is also important for
the researcher to talk to repository staff
early in the research data life cycle,
rather than at the very end
when the project is over, and
you have to figure out how to prepare your
data files for submission to a repository.
a logical time to contact repositories
is when you are writing
your data management plan.
repository staff can assist researchers
in understanding any specific
data management requirements,
such as accepted file types,
metadata standards,
documentation requirements, and
associated costs, information that should
be included in the data management plan.
how do you know that the data
repository is one that you can trust
with your data for years to come?
since the data repository will be charged
with the long term maintenance and
preservation of a researcher's data,
you will want to be sure the repository
is a trustworthy steward.
researchers and
practitioners in the digital archiving and
preservation fields have
established specific standards and
best practices for the long term
preservation of digital objects.
a repository that is trustworthy is one
that can show compliance to standards and
best practices through policies and
procedures that are both transparent and
well documented.
adhering to standards and
best practices is essential to
achieving trust worthiness.
however, for repositories to
demonstrate their trustworthiness,
they must commit to transparency and
seek audit and certification.
without transparent policies and
procedures,
assessing trustworthiness of
a repository is all but impossible.
transparency requires that
repositories make archival and
digital preservation policies readily
available to stakeholders off and online.
digital preservation policies, access and
use policies, data security policies,
metadata policies, and others should
be clear and understandable to users.
this is an important aspect of
communicating repository services and
capabilities to users,
which gives assurances that their
data are being properly cared for.
another mechanism for repositories
to demonstrate their trustworthiness
is through audit and certification.
three well known examples of audit schemes
are drambora, the data seal of approval,
and the iso 16363 audit and certification
of trustworthy digital repositories.
each provides detailed guidelines or
specific criteria for
assessing the trustworthiness of digital
repositories based on adherence,
standards, and best practices.
odd its may be completed using
a self assessment process,
a peer review process,
or an external audit.
self-audits like drambora are useful tools
that enable repositories to
examine their own policies and
procedures against benchmarks to
identify areas for improvement.
drambora, which stands for
digital repository audit method
based on risk assessment,
was developed by the digital curation
center and digital preservation in europe.
drambora offers a tool kit that guides the
archivist through a structured process to
analyze the scope of the repository,
repository activities and
assets, risks and vulnerabilities,
and calculations of risks.
it also allows the archivist to
define risk management measures, and
produces self audit report.
self audits are often the first
step toward external audits
which can be more rigorous and
labor intensive.
the data seal of approval
from the data archiving and
network surfaces or dense is a low
vary of option for external audit and
certification through peer review
trustworthiness is judged according
to 16 guidelines each of which
falls into one of three categories.
guidelines related to data producers.
guidelines related to repositories.
and guidelines related to data consumers.
these guidelines align with a list
of specific criteria, that if met,
deem a repository worthy
of a data seal of approval.
to be considered trustworthy,
the repository must present public facing
documentation, that demonstrates that
the data can be found on the internet.
the data are accessible with
clear rights and licenses,
the data are in a usable format,
the data are reliable, and
the data are identified in a unique and
persistent way.
more rigorous is the iso 16363 audit and
certification of trustworthy
digital repositories standard.
it isn't enough for repositories
to claim that it is trustworthy.
iso 16363 demands extensive evidence.
the audit examines
repository attributes and
responsibilities in three
principle categories.
organizational infrastructure,
digital object management, and
infrastructure and
security risk management.
each of these categories
presents a series of metrics
with which an auditor can judge
repository effectiveness.
for each metric, the repository must
be able to demonstrate conformance by
presenting actual evidence, such as
policy documents, accounting budgets,
training materials, system logs,
contracts, and licenses.
our repository that has earned
iso 16363 certification is
able to present evidence of
conformance to over a hundred metrics.
while achieving this certification is
rigorous, it is the most thorough and
comprehensive today, and
considered the gold standard.
it is important to note that audits
should be performed routinely and
periodically, especially since
technology is rapidly changing and
can significantly impact workflows and
processes.
with regular audits, repositories
demonstrate to their stakeholders
that they are trusted data stewards.
[music]
