[MUSIC] In the 6th module we
are discussing weak interaction. And in this 7th video we'll talk about quark decays
mediated by weak interactions. After following this video,
you will know the quark decay mechanism, which is analogous to the muon decay,
we discussed in video 6.4, and you will know the quantum nature of
quark states which interacts with W bosons. And the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix, which describes these mixtures
in the Standard Model. The couplings of quarks to the W±
privilege those between members of the same generation, but they also
exist across generation boundaries. Pion decay is an example for the dominant case, where the W connects an up
quark to a down quark. An example of an intergeneration
decay is the kaon decay, where the W boson connects
an up quark to a strange quark. In the Feynman diagrams shown here, we have again replaced the incoming
antiquarks by outgoing quarks. The ratio of the two partial rates
is measured to be of order 1. These experimental results show that
kaon decay is very much disfavored. The kaon phase space is large compared
to the pion due to it's large mass. Neglecting moun and neutrino
masses, the decay width is proportion to the parent particle mass to the 5th power. The ratio is thus expected to be 100 times larger. It must be concluded
that the intergeneration interactions are disfavored
compared to intrageneration interactions by at least
a factor of 100 in the rate or a factor of 10 in the amplitude. In 1963, Nicola Cabibbo proposed
a way to describe these processes. States which interact with the W±
are not the quarks which are listed in the periodic table of matter particles,
which we presented in module 1. The particles, which interact with
the W bosons, are the mixtures d’, s’, and b’, quantum superposition of the real quarks d, s and b. The states, d’, s’, and b’
are not eigenstates of the mass operator. So they are not real particles
which evolve in space time, but they come from a rotation
in flavor space. Since these rotations will not change the
number of fermions, the operator must be unitary. For two generation
the description is simplified. In the formula we see symbolic
substitute the wave function of the quarks with the name of the quark. The angle of rotation between the first
two generations, theta_C, is called the Cabibbo angle. The mixing corresponds to
a modification of the weak charged quark current.
A small strange quark amplitude s is added to the down quark wave function and
vice versa. As a consequence the amplitudes of
the weak interaction of quarks change. For dominant interactions of
the W with the u-d current, for example, the rotation induces a factor
cosine theta_C in the amplitude. For disfavored interactions, such as those
with a u-s current, the factor sine theta_C appears. The relative rates of the two types
of interaction are thus redused by a factor tangent squared of theta C. From the observed rate reduction
with respect to the phase space one finds a  Cabibbo rotation
angle of about 13 degrees. This consideration must be generalized
to 3 generations of quarks. Matrix notation is introduced between
states, which appear in the weak charged quark current, that is d’,
s’ and b’, and the real quarks d, s and b. The unity matrix V_ckm is called the Cabibbo-Kobayash-Maskawa matrix
after the names of its inventors. The Particle Data Group compiles the values of
these elements from many different measurements. These matrix elements appear
at each vertex of the W± with a pair of quarks. Absolute values are measured by comparing
decay rates of each type except for top quark interaction where they are
derived from the unitarity of the matrix. The matrix elements become smaller
as one deviates from the diagonal. This means that intra-generation
interactions dominate the weak charged current. Inter-generation interactions jumping
a single generation are disfavored. Those which bridge two generation,
even more. The structure of the matrix
thus favors decay cascade, like the one of the top quark shown here. Note that the unitarity allows
the matrix elements to be complex, therefore a non-trivial phase
angle may appear in the matrix. This factor makes amplitudes non-invariant
under the operation CP, the symmetry between matter and
anti-matter. We will talk about violation of matter-
antimatter symmetry in the next video. [MUSIC]