[music].
remember, continuity is all how nearby  inputs are sent to nearby outputs.
differentiability is how wiggling the  input affects the output.
in light of this, they seemed related,  right?
something like the following seems  plausible.
here's the theorem.
theorem.
if f is differentiable at a, then f is  continuous at a.  in other words, a differentiable function  is continuous.
morely, we know that a differentiable  function is continuous.
but were advanced enough at the is point  in the course to give a precise argument  using limit.
here we go.
let's suppose that f prime of a exists.
in other words, that means a certain  limit exists.
what limit?
well, the limit of  f(x)-f(x)/x-a as x approaches a.  this limit of a difference quotients  computes the derivative for the function  at a. so, to say that the derivative  exists is to say that this limit exists.
now, here comes the trick.
what i'd like to compute is the limit of  f(x)-f(a) as x approaches a, but i don't  know how to do that directly.
but, i can rewrite this thing i'm taking  the limit of as a product.
watch.
instead of taking this limit, i'm going  to take the limit as x approaches a of  x-a times this difference quotient, times  f(x)-f(a)/x-a.
now, as long as x isn't equal to a, this  product is equal to this difference.
now, why does that help?
well, this is a  limit of a product.
so, by one of the limit laws, the limit  of a product's the product of the limits  as long as the limits exist.
and in this case, they do.
so, this limit of this product is, the  product of the limits.
it's the limit of x-a as x approaches a,  times the limit of f(x)-f(a)/x-a.
i'm only allowed to use this limit law  because i know both of these limits  exist.
now, this first limit, the limit of x-a  as x approaches a, that's 0.  and this second limit, well, this limit  exists precisely because i'm assuming  differentiability,  the function's are differentiable.
so, this limit is calculating the  derivative at a, and zero times any  number is equal to zero.
the upshot here is that we've shown that  the limit of f(x)-f(a)=0 as x approaches  a.  why would you care about this?
how does  that help us?
we know that the limit of  f(x)-f(a) as x approaches a is equal to  what that means is that the limit of f(x)  as x approaches a is equal to f(a), but  this is just the definition of  continuity.
so now we know that f is continuous at  the point a.  that's where we ended up.
remember, what we started with.
we started by assuming that f was  differentiable at a.  and after doing all this work, we ended  up concluding that f is continuous at the  point a.  so, differentiability implies continuity.
one way to keep track of arguments like  this is to think about clouds and rain.
theorem.
if it is rainy, then it is cloudy.
a shorter way of saying this, rainy  implies cloudy.
now the question is, does it go the other  way?
if it's cloudy, is it necessarily  rainy?
can you think of a cloudy day with  no rain?
yes, today.
let's look out the window.
it is very cloudy but there's no rain.
beyond clouds and rain, let's bring this  back to the mathematics.
a differentiable  function is continuous, can you think of  a continuous function which isn't  differentiable?
you might want to hit pause right now,  if you don't want the puzzle given away.
here's an example of a function which is  continuous but not differential,  the function f(x)=|x|.
we recently saw that the absolute value  function wasn't differentable at zero.
but how do we know that the absolute  value function is continuous everywhere?
we know that the absolute value function  is continuous.
i mean, look at it.
it's all one piece.
but, we can do better.
we can use our limit knowledge to make a  more precise argument.
we know that f(x)=|x| is continuous for  positive inputs.
it's continuous on the open interval from  zero to infinity because the function x  is continuous there.
and this function, the absolute value  function, agrees with the function x if i  plug in positive numbers.
likewise, i know that the function is  continuous on negative inputs because the  function -x is continuous there, and the  function -x agrees with this function on  this interval.
the only sticking point is to check that  the function's continuous at zero.
and if  i know it's continuous for positive  inputs, negative inputs, and it's  continuous at zero, then i know that it's  continuous for all inputs.
now, how do i know that the absolute  value function is continuous at zero?
well, that's another limit argument,  right?
the limit of the absolute value  function when i push from the right-hand  side is the same as the limit of the  absolute value function when i push from  the left-hand side, they're both zero.
and because these two one-sided limits  exist and agree, then i know the  two-sided limit of the absolute value  function is equal to zero,  which is also the function's value at  zero.
and therefore, the abslute value function  is continuous.
in the end, there's some relationship  between differentiability and continuity.
differentiable functions are continuous.
mathematics isn't just a sequence of  unrelated concepts.
[music] it's a single unified whole.
all of these ideas are connected at the  deepest possible levels.
[music]
