[music] here is the question that i want  to address right now.
what's the derivative of some constant  multiple of some function?
now, in this  case the constant multiple is 2 but of  course that 2 could be replaced by any  sixth number.
if you don't like the d d x notation,  another way to ask this question is this.
if you've got some new function g and  it's the constant multiple times f, again  in this case i'm using 2 as the constant,  the question is, what's the derivative of  g in terms of the derivative of f?
to gain some intuition, let's pick a  specific example, and look at a graph.
so here's the graph, of, just some random  function.
let's suppose that i stretch this graph,  in the y direction.
so now i stretch the y axis, and that  corresponds to multiplying the function  by a constant value.
in this case, to,  how do the tangent lines change when i do  this stretching?
so if i double the y  axis, the function changes by twice as  much for the same input change.
so if i double the y axis, the slope of  the tangent line also doubles and that  makes sense numerically.
here's what i know.
i know that g of x is twice f of x.  g is this constant multiple of f.  i also know something about the  derivative of f.  the derivative encodes how input changes  become output changes, or, a bit more  precisely, the derivative in the limit is  the ratio of output change to input  change.
so if i multiply the ratio of output  change to input change by an actual input  change, this at least approximately is  telling me how much the output should  change when i move from x to x plus h.  right, f's new output at the input x plus  h.  is it's old output plus how much i expect  the output to change.
this is a really nice way to summarize  what the derivative's saying.
i know another thing.
i know that g of x plus h is twice f of x  plus h just because g is twice f for any  input value x, so in particular that's  true when the input is x plus h.  these two statements are connected.
alright, g of x plus h is twice f of x  plus h and f of x plus h is approximately  this.
so i can combine those two statements  together in this statement.
g of x plus h is about twice f(x)+h is  approximate value, right.
2f(x)+2h*f-prime(x), which i've written  as h*2f-prime(x).
i made this a little bit nicer.
since 2f(x) is g(x),  i can replace this 2*f(x), with g(x).
and this is really looking good.
this is telling me that g's output at x+h  is about, g's output at x, plus how much  i change the input by, times some  quantity.
now, considering that the actual  derivative of g would tell me some  information like this.
that g's output is about, g's old output  plus how much i change the input by times  the derivative.
you're beginning to see what's going on  here, right?
look, i've got the  derivative of g here.
and i've got twice the derivative of f  here.
and if you sort of believe that these  statements are connected in this way, you  might then believe that the derivative of  g is twice the derivative of f.  the derivative of g here is twice the  derivative of f.  we can formalize this as a rule.
here's the constant multiple rule.
so let k be constant and suppose that f  is just some function which is  differentiable at the point a.  g is that constant multiple of f, so g of  x is k*f(x).
given this setup, what the constant  multiple rule is concluding, is that the  derivatives are related in the same way.
the derivative at the point a is k times  the derivative of f at the point a.  now if you don't like this prime notation  you could also write it using the d d x  notation.
so here's how i write the constant  multiple law using the d d x notation.
the derivative of k times a function is k  times the derivative of that function.
i encourage you to keep practicing.
with time, you'll be able to calculate  the derivative of just a ton of different  functions.
[music]
