[MUSIC] During this first module, we are introducing the objects studied by
particle physics namely matter, forces and space-time but also, of course,
reactions between particles. In this third video,
we present the concept of probability, to characterize the strength
of fundamental forces. We'll also define one of
the most important quantities in particle physics, which is
called the cross section. This quantity allows to calculate and to measure the strength
of subatomic reactions. After watching this video, you will be
able to define the cross section in terms of incident flux and
number of target particles. You will also be able to relate the cross
section to the probability, and the rate of a particle reaction. In quantum physics the motion of
fields and their way of interacting is described by probability
amplitudes and probabilities themselves. They are defined in a frequentist
way by multiple measurements. For the movement of a particular the wave
function psi, describes the probability amplitude as a function of space-time,
and the four-momentum of the particle, namely as a function of t and x and
of energy E and momentum p. The probability density to find
the particle at time t and at location x, is given by the square
of the wave function psi* psi. Integrating this density
over a finite volume gives us the probability that
the particle is in this volume. The probability amplitude M for
a reaction is the joint probability amplitude that two
current densities j_1 and j_2 meet and exchange a virtual photon of
four-momentum q. The probability for the reaction is
then given by the cross section sigma, which is proportional to the square
of the amplitude |M|^2. The physics of particle motion and particle reactions is thus expressed
via statistical probabilities. Mathematically speaking, a probability
is a real number between 0 and 1. In a frequentist approach, the probability
is defined as the ratio between the number of desired outcomes of an experiment,
we might call successes, and the number of trials it
took to obtain them. In terms of physics, this is
the ratio between the number of times an event happens, and the number
of times it could have happened. An event can for example be the localization of
a particle inside a given volume. The ratio can also be the number
of times a reaction takes place, divided by the number of times
it could have taken place. This means in particular that
reactions do not always happen. In fact, we will find that
they happen rather rarely. Probabilities follow their own
relatively simple algebra. For our purposes it suffices to
know our two simple rules. The joint probability of
two independent events to happen is the product of
their individual probabilities. The probability that at least one
of two incompatible events happen, is the sum of the two properties. The two probabilities, sorry. Incompatible means that the two events
cannot be realized at the same time. And all of these rules applied to
the probability amplitudes that we have introduces earlier. The two limiting cases for
a probability are p=0 for impossible events and
p=1 for certain events. In general,
we will find that probabilities for particle reactions
are rather small numbers. Processes which follow probabilistic
laws are not certain individually, but can still be predicted collectively. This little simulation shows what is
called a Galton board as an example. The small balls are introduced in
the middle at the top of the board. The obstacles scatter them either left or
right with 50% probability. The multiple scatters
are independent of each other, the result does not
depend on a previous one. At the bottom of the board,
the balls show, as you can see, a Gaussian distribution
around the middle position. For those of you who know a little
statistics, this is an example of how chains of multiple events with
an arbitrary individual distribution – Boolean in this case but
not necessarily Boolean – asymptotically produce
a Gaussian distribution, the famous bell-shaped distribution,
which is perfectly calculable and characterized by just two parameters, the
mean and the width of the distribution. But let us come back to particle reaction. Particle physics explores matter by
means of scattering experiments. For this purpose a beam of particles
is directed towards a target. One counts the number of
scatters which take place, and measures the scattered
particle direction and energy. This sketch shows
a fictitious situation where each target particle is represented
by a small gray surface. Let us consider a simple model
where a reaction takes place if and only if, a particle hits a gray surface. Let us make the assumption that
the distance between target particles is large compared to their size such
that the gray surfaces do not overlap. The interaction thus stays rare. In real life this corresponds to
a target which is made by a thin foil or a rarified gas. The number of possible
scatters is evidently proportional to the flux of incoming
particles, of incoming projectiles. That is to say, their number per unit time which pass
through a perpendicular surface. The number of actual scatters is
proportional to the number of target particles per square meter. That is to say,
the surface density n and the individual surface sigma. If fact, the probability to
interact is simply the product of the surface density and
the surface size sigma. A small part dI of the initial
flux I will thus be scattered. The rest of the flux is just transmitted. The small fraction of the scattered
flux -dI/I is thus equal to the interaction
probably n times sigma. The density of targets can also be
expressed as the volume density rho, if one multiplies by the infinitesimal
target thickness, dx. Integrating over the thickness up to
∆x, one obtains an exponential law for the attenuation of the incident flux. We call sigma the cross section for the reaction because it has
the dimension of a surface. It has nothing to with the geometrical
size of the target particle, it rather represents the probability of interaction
between an individual projectile and an individual target particle. The cross-section is often measured
in enormous units which are one « barn » ten to the minus 28 square meters,
which is a very large one. The cross-section is, thus, a sort of probability expressed
by strange units, one must admit. But the rules for
probability calculation apply. If two processes
are independent of each other, the probabilities just simply add up. One distinguishes, for example,
processes of elastic scattering, where the kinetic energy of
the projectile does not change, just its direction changes, inelastic scattering,
where the projector looses energy and the target particle recoils and/or
changes mass, and absorption where the projectile
simply disappears inside the target. For these mutually exclusive processes, the cross-sections can just be added to
form what is called a total cross section, like in the bottom equation on this slide. The cross-section must obviously
be a positive real number. It has a maximum, which corresponds to a reaction
which always takes place. That is called the unitarity limit. An application example is
calculated in video 1.3a, it deals with the attenuation
of photons by a sheet of lead. The result will probably surprise you,
and encourage you hopefully, to be very careful the next time you expose
yourself to a beam of energetic photons. It is clear that the properties of the
outgoing particles are also important to understand the reaction. For example, the angle by which
the projectile is scattered gives useful information about the structure of
the target, and the properties of the interaction as we'll see with many
examples in the course of these lectures. Keeping in mind that the cross-section has
nothing to do with the physical size of the target, let us continue to imagine
the cross-section as an effective area for the interaction. If the projectile hits it
a reaction takes place, otherwise the projectile
passes without perturbation. The scattering into an infinitesimal
element dOmega of solid angle, centered on the polar angle theta and
the azimuth angle phi, then comes from an element dsigma of
that surface in our geometrical model. The fraction of the incoming beams
scattered into the solid element is proportional to the differential
cross section, dsigma dOmega. The probability that a projectile
is scattered into a solid angle element is not normally uniform. It depends on the angles theta and phi,
the scattering and the azimuth angle, and allows one to look into
the target in a literal sense. The total cross section is obtained
integrating the differential cross section dsigma dOmega
over the solid angle dOmega. Let us consider a system
with cylindrical symmetry. The scattering probability is then independent
of the azimuthal angle phi and only depends on
the scattering angle theta. An example from classical physics is
the scattering by a central force. It shows a fixed relation between
the impact parameter b and the polar scattering angle theta. All projectiles with an impact
parameter between b and b plus db and an initial azimuthal
angle between phi and phi plus dphi, are scattered into an element dOmega
around the direction (theta,phi). The fraction of the incoming beam which
falls into such a region is dI/I equal rho times ∆x times b db dphi. Integrating over the azimuthal
angle on which the force does not depend we will just obtain a factor of 2π,
and the results defines the cross-section in terms of impact parameter,
and the scheduling angle. Taking the absolute value
guarantees that the cross section, is always a positive definite real number. The scattering angle theta depends on the
impact parameter b, in a specific manner, which is determined, in fact, by the distance law of the central
force or its equivalent potential. Let us take a really trivial example: the classical shock
between two rigid bodies. The geometry and the laws of elastic
reflection relate b to thetha, in the simple geometrical way
sketched in this little drawing. The differential cross-section
is just constant, it does not depend on
the scattering angle. The angular distribution of
the scattered particles is isotropic. The total cross section is found
to be sigma times πR^2, equal to the geometrical
surface of the target and we're not surprised to find this result
which we expected in the first place. In the next video, Mercedes will give
you a much more interesting example of a realistic
electromagnetic interaction. In this case,
the interaction of a He-4 nucleus also known as an alpha particle
with a heavy nucleus like gold. This process is called Rutherford scattering,
its experimental observation has revealed the existence
of the atomic nucleus. [MUSIC]