[MUSIC] In this sixth module,
we are discussing weak interactions. And in this nineth video, we talk about
neutrinos which are the only particles that interact exclusively
by weak interactions. After following this video, you will know
the basic properties of neutrinos and their fabulously small
cross-section with mater. The processes involving neutrinos are only
due to weak interactions because neutrinos carry neither electric nor
color charge. The process through which weak neutral
interactions have been discovered is the elastic scattering
of neutrinos off electrons, namely nu_µ e- -> nu_µ e-. This picture taken with
a Gargamelle bubble chamber at CERN the 1973 documents the first
observation of this reaction type. It is in fact the very first observation
of a weak neutrino current event. The neutrino enters from the left and interacts with an atomic
electron of the liquid. A single visible track leaves
from the interaction vertex. It is due to a minimum ionizing particle
as shown by the low bubble density. The particle also causes bremsstrahlung. It is therefore clearly an electron. The bremsstrahlung photon is then
converted into an e+ e- pair. Since the observation of this reaction, the neutrino has become a precious tool
for the study of weak interactions, particularly the interactions of the Z and
W with matter. For energies much lower
than the Z boson mass, the cross-section depends on the coupling
constants g_V and g_A of the electron. Those of the neutrino we
have fixed to one-half. These coupling constants have already
been discussed and defined in video 6.6. The cross-section is valid for
neutrinos of the second and of the third generation,
that is to say nu_µ and nu_tau. For the anti-neutrino, the cross-section
is indicated by the lower equation. It differs from the neutrino cross-section
in the sign of the interference term between the vector and
axialvector contributions. Neutrino electron cross-sections
are extremely small. The proportionality to
E_nu comes from the total energy available in the initial
state s, which is (p+k)^2, or in the approximation
of zero neutrino mass, it is two times energy of the neutrino
times the mass of the electron. This proportionality is regularized
at high energy by the Z propagator hidden in the Fermi constant, G_F. At 1 GeV, the cross-sections are 
of order attobarn. The rates are thus desperately low. Obviously, the neutrino can also
interact with quarks through the exchange of a Z boson. This image was taken with the same
Gargamelle bubble chamber in the CERN neutrino beam. Here we show the original
negative picture. The neutrino again
enters from the left and interacts this time with
a proton of the liquid. There are three hadrons
coming out of the vertex, two positively charged and one negative, as shown by the curvature
of the tracks in the magnetic field. The proton in the middle interacts
with a nucleus of the liquid, both pions are slowed down
by dE/dx and absorbed. The neutrino escapes
without leaving a track. Neutrinos also interact via W exchange
in charged weak interactions, like in this example. The neutrino once again
enters from the left and interacts this time with a neutron. A µ- leaves the chamber
with minimal ionization. A highly ionizing proton
is visible at the vertex. A π0 decays into two photons
which in turn are converted into e+ e- pairs. The two charged pions interact with
the liquid by the strong force and produce other hadrons. You see by these examples that bubble
chamber images contain a lot of information and are very graphical. They are easily interpreted to
identify the reaction and the final state. In fact, photos of this type which
awakened my fascination with particle physics in the 1970s. But this analog technology is
of course no longer used today. We had seen that for
neutrino-electron interactions, the cross-section is proportional
to the neutrino energy. This is true in general to both for purely
leptonic and for interactions between neutrinos and quarks. And for charged, as
well as for neutral current interactions. Here you see the compilation of
the particle data group of neutrino and antineutrino charged
current cross-sections, divided by the neutrino energy to
better appreciate the proportionality. You may wonder if at some point,
a cross-section that increases with energy will
not violate the unitarity limit. Indeed, the neutrino cross-sections are
regularized by the propagator of the W and Z boson and very high q^2. But to see this effect of the propagator,
we need fabulously high energies beyond 10^15 eV in the laboratory
frame, that is to say 1,000 TeV. This graph shows a calculation of
the cross-section at very high energy. The Z resonance is clearly visible for reactions which involve an
s-channel Z exchange. Beyond the resonance, the propagator
regularizes the cross sections such that it will eventually tend to 0 as it should. For reactions involving W
exchange in the t-channel, regularization takes much higher energy, since only a small fraction
of the neutrino energy is transmitted to the target. In the next video, we will discuss oscillations
between different neutrino species. [MUSIC]