[MUSIC] During the second module,
we are dealing with nuclear physics. And in this eighth video, we will explain
how to transform a part of the nuclear binding energy into heat
by nuclear fission. After viewing this video, you will
know how the nuclear fission mechanism works and its necessary conditions. A very important application of nuclear
physics is the transformation of nuclear binding energy into thermal and electrical
energy by the fission mechanism. Low energy neutrons can penetrate inside the nucleus
since they're not subject to Coulomb repulsion. This way they increase
the nuclear mass and the excited nucleus may break up into
two daughter nuclei of smaller mass. This fragmentation of a heavy
nucleus into two medium mass fragments plus accessory products
is called nuclear fission. The alpha decay which we have
discussed in video 2.4 is an extreme example of a very
asymmetric spontaneous fission. But more important is the fission
induced by the absorption of a neutron. Nuclear fission stay in the domain
of a heavy matter nuclei and this is due to the shape of
the binding energy per nucleon as a function of the mass number A 
which we have shown in video 2.1. Beyond the iron group, it decreases
steadily such that binding energy can be gained by splitting a heavy nucleus into two
nuclei in a more or less symmetric way. Thus, a less tightly bound nucleus
can gain binding energy by splitting it into two lighter,
more tightly bound ones. As an example,
the binding energy per nucleon is -7.5 MeV for U-235 and -8.4 MeV on average for
the two daughter nuclei. The energy released by fission is
typically 0.9 MeV per nucleon. One gram of U-235 contains about
3 10^21 nuclei. The complete fission of all of these
nuclei would release the impressive energy of 10^11 joules, about one megawatt a day if we
ignore all efficiencies involved. To give you an idea for
comparison, burning one ton of coal yields about 0.36 Megawatt-day,
if again you ignore efficiencies. Thus one gram of U-235 contains 
as much nuclear energy as three tons of coal
contain in chemical energy. We can understand the nuclear fission
qualitatively and quantitatively using the liquid drop model of the nucleus
which we have introduced in video 2.3. Let's first look at the process qualitatively. The liquid drop model presumes
a spherical shape of the nucleus. But for a heavy nucleus a small external perturbation
like for instance an incident neutron can produce surface waves
leading to a change in shape. The drop may thus extend into spheroïdal shape and if this perturbation is small enough,
the nucleus will be left excited and just return to its ground
state by emitting a photon. This process is called
radiative neutron capture. If on the contrary the perturbation 
is large, Coulomb repulsion along the axis of this spheroïd can split the drop into two droplets by
what is called induced fission. Now, let us calculate under
which condition this may happen. A sphere of radius R will turn into
a spheroïd of a constant volume because of the incompressibility of nuclear matter. We denote its half-axes by a and
b, which is equal to c. In terms of a small deformation epsilon, they transform into
(b - epsilon) and (a + epsilon). For the binding energy, the volume 
term stays constant, but the surface and Coulomb energy are different. The deformation increases
this surface energy but decreases the Coulomb term. So the gain or loss in binding energy will depend on the
relative importance of these two terms. If the difference is greater than 0, the
spherical nucleus is more tightly bound and thus stable against
this small perturbation. If on the contrary,
∆ is less than zero, the spherical nucleus is less tightly
bound and can undergo fission. Putting in the typical values for
the coefficients a_2 and a_3, one obtains stability if the ratio
Z^2/A is less than 47. There are small quantum corrections
to this classical approach which, however, do not change the conclusion. We expect on the contrary, that nuclei
which set Z^2 > 47A, are highly unstable against a small perturbation
and thus can be easily induced to fission. Heavy nuclei have Z < A/2
so  the conditions that Z^2 < 47 A is satisfied. The spherical shape corresponds
to the maximum binding energy but even in that case,
a fission can be energetically favorable, if the sum of binding energies of the
daughter nuclei is favorable with respect to the mother nucleus. Let us calculate this case for a symmetric fission assuming spherical
daughter nuclei for simplicity. A and Z of the parent nucleus must thus be even. We again ignore quantum
terms of the Bethe-Weizsäcker formula. The energy difference is denoted by ∆. With typical coefficients,
we obtain delta equal to 0.27 A^2/3 (-16.5 + Z^2/A). Thus for Z^2 < 16.5A the two daughter nuclei are more tightly
bounded than the mother nucleus. We thus see that for
the region Z^2 between 16.5A and 47A, the spherical shape may
be stable against fission but it remains energetically favorable for
the parent nucleus to split into two smaller ones,
when it is sufficiently perturbed. Beyond that zone, even a minor
perturbation by a thermal neutron, for instance, will suffice to cause fission. Let us consider Uranium
isotopes as an example. U-238 is an even even nucleus and thus more tightly bound than U-235,
which is odd even. We thus need a smaller perturbation
to induce fission in U-235. The activation energy
is about 5 MeV for U-235 and 6 MeV for U-238. When capturing a neutron,
U-235 becomes an even-even nucleus. This transformation releases about 6.5 MeV of binding energy, which is
sufficient to activate its fission. For U-238, a neutron capture changes the nucleus
to a less tightly bound odd-even one. This will be a less exothermal process. It releases only 4.8 MeV
out of the necessary 6 MeV. So additional 1.2 MeV per neutron
must be provided to induce fission. The fragments are often rather asymmetric. One observes a grouping of the daughter
nuclei around mass number 95 and 140 as shown in this picture, for
a reason which we have not yet understood. The picture here in fact shows the mass
spectrum of daughter nuclei from the fission of U-233, U-235,
Pu-239, as well as a mixture. The mass spectra are similar. After the fission process the daughter
nuclei are often in a excited states. And they turn into stable isotopes
by neutron emission. Neutrons are thus abundant
among the fission products. They can cause a chain reaction
of nuclear fission processes. U-235 produces on average
2.5 neutrons per fission. These neutrons can in turn induce
new fission reactions and so forth. To see if a chain reaction can be
maintained, we consider the ratio k of the number of neutrons
produced in step n+1 to the one produced
in step n of the chain. If k is less than one,
there are not enough neutrons to sustain a chain reaction, and
the process will stop by itself. If k is equal to one or around one,
there are just enough neutrons to maintain a chain reaction with a
constant number of fissions at each step. This is the ideal situation for
nuclear fission reactor. If k is bigger than one, more and more
neutrons will be produced at each stage, thus leading to an exponential growth
of the number of fission reaction. And this is the situation which is searched
for the production of nuclear weapons. In the next video,
we will talk about how to use the fission process in
nuclear power plants. [MUSIC]