In this segment we're gonna take a look at
box logic. Unfortunately, we cannot do that here on the studio so we're gonna
have to take a road trip. Today we're headed for Stanford University's renowned
logic laboratory. Follow me. And here we are. This is the logic laboratory. It may
not look like much at least not superficially but this is where we
investigate some of the latest innovations in logic technology. Today our goal was to
look at box logic. Now the language of box logic is pretty simple. There are really
just three constants. There is large box, there is medium box, and there is small
box and they are all oriented one way or the other. Forming compound sentences from
our consonants is easy. If we want to negate a sentence, we just invert. Not
medium box, medium box. If you want this form of this junction from our constants,
we stack them up. So here we have small box or medium box. And a conjunction is
formed simply by placing multiple boxes or stacks of boxes on our table. So it's
effectively colossal for. Okay. Now, let's try to use our logic to solve some
problems. How about the problem case of Mary Patton Quincy? We call that. If it's
Monday, Mary loves Pat or Quincy and Quincy, if Mary loves Pat, Mary loves
Quincy. Let's see how we can represent that information using our new language.
So first of all, if Mary loves Pat, Mary loves Quincy let's, let this medium sized
box represent the fact that Mary loves Pat. This one represents Mary loves Quincy
and the large one is going to be Monday. So we wanna say, if Mary loves Pat, Mary
loves Quincy. How do we do that? Recalling the rules for converting to colossal form,
we know that p implies q as equivalent to not p or q. So if you wanted to write
that, we would write not Mary loves Pat or Mary loves Quincy. So, not Mary loves Pat
or Mary loves Quincy. If Mary loves Pat, Mary loves Quincy. How about our other
sentence? If it's Monday, then Mary loves Pat or Quincy. It's Monday, let's see. We
need to say not Monday or Pat or Quincy. So it's not Monday mo re quick copies. Or
Pat or Quincy. So there we have it. If it's Monday, Mary loves Pat or Quincy. If
Mary loves Pat, Mary loves Quincy, represented, representing the premises of
the problem. Now you may recall that the object of the problem was to show that if
it's Monday then Mary loves Quincy. So how could we do that? What we have done is
representing but we can also do computation, deduction with box logic. Any
rules are pretty simple. If we ever have one stack which has a constant. Literal
which is the complement of literal on another stack, we can do resolution on
them. So here we have one stack with medium box down, here one stack with
medium box up. We can combine the two stacks and eliminate the complementary
literals and form these answers and since it's a duplicate, we can throw that one
away and we're left with our conclusion. If it's Monday, Mary loves Quincy, nifty.
Okay, what's the point? The point is that the language of logic is not about
particular sets of symbols. And the active deduction doesn't mean necessarily that
we're operating upon those particular symbols. Logic is an abstraction. Any
instantiation of the symbols is equally good and any operations on them is equally
good provided that it respects that basic abstraction. Okay. That's it for our visit
to the logic laboratory today. We'll be back again later in the course with some
additional demonstrations and we'll see you then.