[MUSIC] In the sixth module,
we are discussing weak interaction. And in this fourth video,
we discuss a prototype process of charged weak interactions, the leptonic
interaction of the W boson. After following this video, you will know
how to describe the decays of muon and tau leptons,
in terms of a Feynman diagram. And how to discuss the properties
of this interaction quantitatively. Here is the Feynman diagram for
muon decay. The emission of the W- converts
the muon into a muon neutrino. The virtual W then decays into
an electron - electron-antineutrino pair. This way the lepton number
weak isospin and other quantum numbers, are conserved. In the diagram, we already converted
the outgoing antineutrino into an incoming neutrino, by inverting its charge and
four-momentum, k’ into -k’. In the amplitude, the W propagator
contributes a factor of one over q^2 minus the mass squared of the W, which weakens the amplitude for q^s much smaller than
the square of the mass of the W. At low momentum transfers, like for light particles decays where
q^2 is smaller or equal to the square of the mass of
the muon, that is, it is negligible, the propagator is constant and equal to
the inverse of the square mass of the W. We can then treat this process in the 
so-called Fermi approximation. By convention, one absorbs this
residual of the W propagator with the square of the coupling constant
g^2, to form the Fermi constant G_F. It takes the role of the fine structure
constant for weak interactions. In this approximation, valid at low
momentum transfers, weak interactions can be described by a direct interaction
between two current densities. The transition currents corresponding
to charged and weak interactions, are similar to the electromagnetic ones. One denotes them in an imprecise manner,
as charged currents CC. Analogously, the interaction
of the Z boson at low energy, that is q^2 much smaller than
the square of the mass of the Z, can be approximated by direct interaction
of two neutral currents, NC. The constant rho involves the Weinberg
angular theta_W, which measures the ratio between the coupling constants
of the weak charged and neutral interactions. The constant rho is equal
to one with good precision. This is due to the fact that in
the Standard Theory of electroweak interaction, the masses of the vector
bosons and the coupling constants are connected by the Higgs mechanism,
which we will discuss in video 6.11. High-precision experimental
results verify this relationship. The differencial muon decay rate,
neglecting the mass of the electron, which is much smaller that
the mass of the muon, is given here as a function of the energy
E’ of the outgoing electron. This energy can vary between zero and
half the mass of the muon. As this process is virtually
the only decay channel, the total rate is obtained
by integrating over E’. The measure of a lifetime of
the muon is close to 2.2 10^-6 s. We thus find a Fermi constant G_F of about 10^-5 inverse GeV squared. The factor m^5 comes in
through the phase-space factor, which enters into the calculation of Gamma. Therefore we find the same formula for
other weak decays, especially for the tau decay. It does on the other hand, not directly
correspond to the total decay rate, because the tau has other important
decay channels due its large mass. So Gamma for the specific
decay is just a partial width, we must take into account
the branching fraction in the numerator. One of the most precise experiments
that measure the muon lifetime, is MuLan at the Paul Scherrer
institute at Villigen in Switzerland. A mu+ beam enters from the left,
and is stopped in a target. The scintillator ball surrounding the target
registers the positrons from the decay, and measures their emission times. The number of decays per unit
time follows an exponential law to a very good approximation, with a low background from accidental
coincidences between beam arrival and the electron signal. The slope of curve gives
the muon lifetime. The MuLan Collaboration finds the value of 2,196,980.3 plus or minus 2.2 picoseconds. This result dominate the global
average of the particle data group. This gives a value of the Fermi constant
accurate to 0.6 parts per million. The tau lepton lifetime is too short for
a direct of measurement. We rather measure its path length L,
at high energies. Tau leptons are produced in large
numbers in electron positron annihilation into tau pairs. At high energies, that is at
the square root of s equal to twice the energy of the tau,
their lifetime in the laboratory frame is extended by
the relativistic factor gamma. Their mean part length L is
therefore longer by a factor p over the mass of the tau. With a lifetime of several
hundred femtoseconds, the path length itself is hardly directly
observable, even at high energies. At a tau energy of 50 GeV for example, the average decay distance
is about 2.5 millimeters, and thus completely
contained in the vacuum tube, that contains the beam
of collider experiments. One determines the decay point from the
vertex of decays into three charged particles. As the tau decays in three
pions plus a neutrino. The trajectories of the three pions
are measured with a tracking the detector, which is typically a silicon detector,
directly outside the vacuum tube. They are then extrapolated
back to their common origin, which is the decay vertex
of the tau lepton. The tau origin being known
from the beam position, the decay length L is thus
the distance between the two points. The decay length distribution
in logarithmic scale, shows the expected exponential behavior, but modified by
the experimental resolution, which is significantly worse than for
direct time measurement. The slope of the distribution
measures the average decay length, which in turn gives the lifetime
as L/(gamma v). The global average of tau lifetime
determined by the Particle Data Group is (290.3 ± 0.5) 10^-15s. This figure is in excellent agreement
with the precision prediction, based on the Fermi constant as determined by
the measured lifetime of the muon. This show that the coupling
constants of the electron, muon and tau to the W boson
are the same to within a few per mil. In the next video,
we'll talk a little more about the properties of the W+ and
W- bosons, and in particular, about their masses. [MUSIC]