[MUSIC] In this eighth module, we discuss
the mysterious components of the universe, which are dark matter and dark energy. In this second video we
review the dark matter. After following this video you will
know how dark matter is detected by its gravitational effects. And how we try to identify its quanta,
the particles that make up dark matter. Among the most compelling evidence for
the existence of dark matter is the observation of the rotational
velocity v of stars around their galaxy as a function of their distance
R from the center of the galaxy. Accordingly to Kepler's third law, this velocity is determined by the total
M(R), included within the orbit. If M(R) became nearly constant outside R_vis,
the visible boundary of the galaxy, there will be a decrease
in the rotational velocity with the square root of
distance from then on. Observation indicates on
the contrary that v(R) remains more or less constant at large R. This means that there is
an invisible mass halo that extends far beyond the optical limit. Its density decreases with
the square of the distance. Gravitational lensing is a formidable tool to measure the total mass of
large astronomical structures, even when this mass does not emit light. The principle is based on
the fact that light rays follow straight lines in space-time
distorted by the gravity of objects. In this manner the gravity of
the object in the foreground causes multiple deformed images
of the object in the background. Measuring the deformation of the image of
a galaxy behind the cluster for example, we can calculate the mass of
the cluster in the foreground. In this way a kind of tomography of the
structure in the foreground is obtained. The optical image from the Hubble Space
telescope on the left shows multiple images of a galaxy in
the background in blue color. The reconstructed mass
distribution of the galaxy cluster in the foreground
is shown on the right. It demonstrates an amorphous
distribution of invisible mass on which peaks of luminous
objects are superimposed. The invisible mass dominates the visible
mass of the cluster, as it does for galaxies. Another convincing indication is obtained
by observing the components of the so called bullet cluster. It consists of two
colliding galaxy clusters. Using gravitational lensing and
x-ray imaging, we can visualize the behavior of different forms of
matter after a galaxy cluster collision. The pink part of this image is
are reconstructed from data of the satellite Chandra, observing the intensity of
X-rays emitted by the cluster. This corresponds to the luminous material
density which shows the deformation, the acceleration by friction, and the coalescence which is
expected after such a collision for ordinary matter. The blue part on the contrary, is the mass densely reconstructed
through gravitational lensing. The distribution shows that
the majority of the mass of the two clusters passes through the
collision without too much interaction. It is therefore in advance,
with respect to the luminous mass. We conclude from all this evidence
that dark matter accounts for about 85% of the mass of galaxies and
their clusters. But this percentage can vary a lot. A recently discovered galaxy,
Dragonfly-44, is even suspected to contain
99.9% of dark matter. It is therefore beyond doubt
that dark matter exists and contributes to the confinement
of matter and light in galaxies, and probably also to their formation. The gravitational behavior of this
substance is the same as that of luminous matter. So this is indeed a form of matter, but an unconventional one in
that it shines no light, does not reflect nor absorb it. If it consists of particles,
their properties must be the following. They must be electrically neutral, else
they would radiate light. They should have evolved
at non-relativistic velocity at the epoch of matter-radiation equilibrium. That's why we speak of
cold dark matter. And they must interact weakly among
themselves and with normal matter. Otherwise the products of
their reactions will be abundant. And finally their density must be
compatible with the missing mass balance. The main research methods which
attempt to identify the generic dark matter particle
chi are the following. Search for chi production at the high energy
colliders like the LHC according to the profile we just showed. You will find examples of
these on the CERN website. So far researchers have not identified signals, but 
this line is vigorously by ATLAS and CMS. And Anna has introduced you to
research like this in module 7. Search for interaction of dark matter with ordinary 
matter where one looks for recoil of a heavy nucleus. Because of the low rates and tiny recoils, this is done with cryogenic
liquid noble gas detector, for example with xenon. You can find more information on
the website of our colleagues in Zurich. The search for
self annihilation products of dark matter particles which are their own
anti-particles. Annihilations will give pairs of
ordinary particles and anti-particles. This could result in a detectable
signal in the energy spectra of otherwise secondary and rare cosmic rays like 
positrons and antiprotons and so on. Martin and I follow this research line
with the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer. We search for products of
auto-annihilation between dark matter particles with our cosmic
ray spectrometer, AMS, installed on the International
Space Station for several years. The spectrometer identifies cosmic ray
particles and measures their energy. It is sensitive to energies between
a fraction of a GeV up to TeV. It has, so far,
collected over 85 billion particles, the largest sample of cosmic rays
analyzed since their discovery more than a hundred years ago. A result that could be relevant for
dark matter detection is the fact that beyond a few tenths of GeV
the fluxes of cosmic positrons and electrons deviate from their normal form. This is particularly noticeable for
positrons, antiparticles which are rare
compared to electrons. This clearly indicates that there is
a new source of electrons and positrons, with the characteristic energy of
several hundred GeV. The question is whether this is a diffuse
source such as the annihilation of dark matter, or a localized source such as one or
more pulsars close to Earth. These two hypotheses can be
differentiated by the detection of anisotropies in the arrival
direction of electrons and positrons. A higher level of anisotropy is
expected from localized nearby sources. We will probably be able to
distinguish the two candidate mechanisms with future data
from the AMS experiment. Also, the rate at which the spectrum
falls back to its normal shape, after the maximum, is full of information. If the extra source is
annihilation of dark matter that mass imposes a well defined upper
limit on any annihilation product. Here, we show an example of
a dark matter particle mass of 700 GeV in red. If there are astrophysical sources, the disappearance of the signal will be much
slower, as indicated by the blue line. We are thus actively fencing in dark matter
from all sides with experimental searches. And I hope to still see the dark matter
particle identified during my lifetime. I am much less optimistic
regarding dark energy, which is discussed in the next video. [MUSIC]