[music] in this eighth module, we discuss the mysterious components of the universe, which are dark matter and dark energy.
in this second video we review the dark matter.
after following this video you will know how dark matter is detected by its gravitational effects.
and how we try to identify its quanta, the particles that make up dark matter.
among the most compelling evidence for the existence of dark matter is the observation of the rotational velocity v of stars around their galaxy as a function of their distance r from the center of the galaxy.
accordingly to kepler's third law, this velocity is determined by the total m(r), included within the orbit.
if m(r) became nearly constant outside r_vis, the visible boundary of the galaxy, there will be a decrease in the rotational velocity with the square root of distance from then on.
observation indicates on the contrary that v(r) remains more or less constant at large r. this means that there is an invisible mass halo that extends far beyond the optical limit.
its density decreases with the square of the distance.
gravitational lensing is a formidable tool to measure the total mass of large astronomical structures, even when this mass does not emit light.
the principle is based on the fact that light rays follow straight lines in space-time distorted by the gravity of objects.
in this manner the gravity of the object in the foreground causes multiple deformed images of the object in the background.
measuring the deformation of the image of a galaxy behind the cluster for example, we can calculate the mass of the cluster in the foreground.
in this way a kind of tomography of the structure in the foreground is obtained.
the optical image from the hubble space telescope on the left shows multiple images of a galaxy in the background in blue color.
the reconstructed mass distribution of the galaxy cluster in the foreground is shown on the right.
it demonstrates an amorphous distribution of invisible mass on which peaks of luminous objects are superimposed.
the invisible mass dominates the visible mass of the cluster, as it does for galaxies.
another convincing indication is obtained by observing the components of the so called bullet cluster.
it consists of two colliding galaxy clusters.
using gravitational lensing and x-ray imaging, we can visualize the behavior of different forms of matter after a galaxy cluster collision.
the pink part of this image is are reconstructed from data of the satellite chandra, observing the intensity of x-rays emitted by the cluster.
this corresponds to the luminous material density which shows the deformation, the acceleration by friction, and the coalescence which is expected after such a collision for ordinary matter.
the blue part on the contrary, is the mass densely reconstructed through gravitational lensing.
the distribution shows that the majority of the mass of the two clusters passes through the collision without too much interaction.
it is therefore in advance, with respect to the luminous mass.
we conclude from all this evidence that dark matter accounts for about 85% of the mass of galaxies and their clusters.
but this percentage can vary a lot.
a recently discovered galaxy, dragonfly-44, is even suspected to contain 99.9% of dark matter.
it is therefore beyond doubt that dark matter exists and contributes to the confinement of matter and light in galaxies, and probably also to their formation.
the gravitational behavior of this substance is the same as that of luminous matter.
so this is indeed a form of matter, but an unconventional one in that it shines no light, does not reflect nor absorb it.
if it consists of particles, their properties must be the following.
they must be electrically neutral, else they would radiate light.
they should have evolved at non-relativistic velocity at the epoch of matter-radiation equilibrium.
that's why we speak of cold dark matter.
and they must interact weakly among themselves and with normal matter.
otherwise the products of their reactions will be abundant.
and finally their density must be compatible with the missing mass balance.
the main research methods which attempt to identify the generic dark matter particle chi are the following.
search for chi production at the high energy colliders like the lhc according to the profile we just showed.
you will find examples of these on the cern website.
so far researchers have not identified signals, but  this line is vigorously by atlas and cms.
and anna has introduced you to research like this in module 7. search for interaction of dark matter with ordinary  matter where one looks for recoil of a heavy nucleus.
because of the low rates and tiny recoils, this is done with cryogenic liquid noble gas detector, for example with xenon.
you can find more information on the website of our colleagues in zurich.
the search for self annihilation products of dark matter particles which are their own anti-particles.
annihilations will give pairs of ordinary particles and anti-particles.
this could result in a detectable signal in the energy spectra of otherwise secondary and rare cosmic rays like  positrons and antiprotons and so on.
martin and i follow this research line with the alpha magnetic spectrometer.
we search for products of auto-annihilation between dark matter particles with our cosmic ray spectrometer, ams, installed on the international space station for several years.
the spectrometer identifies cosmic ray particles and measures their energy.
it is sensitive to energies between a fraction of a gev up to tev.
it has, so far, collected over 85 billion particles, the largest sample of cosmic rays analyzed since their discovery more than a hundred years ago.
a result that could be relevant for dark matter detection is the fact that beyond a few tenths of gev the fluxes of cosmic positrons and electrons deviate from their normal form.
this is particularly noticeable for positrons, antiparticles which are rare compared to electrons.
this clearly indicates that there is a new source of electrons and positrons, with the characteristic energy of several hundred gev.
the question is whether this is a diffuse source such as the annihilation of dark matter, or a localized source such as one or more pulsars close to earth.
these two hypotheses can be differentiated by the detection of anisotropies in the arrival direction of electrons and positrons.
a higher level of anisotropy is expected from localized nearby sources.
we will probably be able to distinguish the two candidate mechanisms with future data from the ams experiment.
also, the rate at which the spectrum falls back to its normal shape, after the maximum, is full of information.
if the extra source is annihilation of dark matter that mass imposes a well defined upper limit on any annihilation product.
here, we show an example of a dark matter particle mass of 700 gev in red.
if there are astrophysical sources, the disappearance of the signal will be much slower, as indicated by the blue line.
we are thus actively fencing in dark matter from all sides with experimental searches.
and i hope to still see the dark matter particle identified during my lifetime.
i am much less optimistic regarding dark energy, which is discussed in the next video.
[music]
