[MUSIC] In this fifth module we are discussing
the structure of hadrons and strong interactions. In this second video we discuss
inelastic scattering between electrons and nucleons and what one can learn from that. After following this video, you will know about resonances
as excited states of nucleons. Dee inelastic scattering and
nucleon structure functions. And the so.called scaling
hypothesis as evidence for substructures inside the nucleon, as well as the role and
distribution of quarks in the nucleon. Form factors decrease rapidly with
q^2 like we showed in video 5.1. Consequently, the probability to observe an elastic scattering
becomes low at high energy-momentum transfer. This is not surprising. Large q^2 corresponds to
a short photon wavelength, which is then more and more able to resolve the internal
structure of the target particle. This structure will then not be
insensitive to the energy-momentum transfer. The target will be excited or
even destroyed. In other words,
inelastic processes take over. At the moderate q^2, inelastic
processes produce excited states of the nucleon, also called
resonances, such as ∆+, which have the same quantum
numbers as the proton. These resonances an extremely
short lifetime and therefore a broad mass distribution. The figure show the result of an
electron-proton scattering experiment at an energy of about 3 GeV and
at fixed scattering angle. The elasticity of the reaction
is first visible in the energy distribution of
the outgoing electron on the left, which is no longer fixed
as in elastic case. Broader secondary maxima are formed
which corresponded to the excited states of the nucleon, also clearly visible in the invariant
mass distribution of the outgoing hadronic state on the right. Is kinematic is completely
determined by measuring the outgoing electron as in the case
of elastic scattering. The position and the inverse width of
the large maximum indicate the mass and the life time of the resonance
∆+(1236). At higher q^2, beyond the resonance region we
enter into the region of the so-called
deep elastic scattering. The final state consists of multiple
hadrons with at least one baryon to to conserve quantum numbers. This is the region where
the photon interacts individually with the charged
constituents of the nucleon. The cross section can be parametrized
with 2 terms as before, but with 2 unknown structure function W_1 and
W_2 replacing the form factors. They parametrize the distribution and dynamics of the nucleon constituents.
They depend on the tranfered energy nu which is the energy of the
photon and its invariant mass squared. The kinematics now requires a second
additional kinematic parameter because the mass of the hadronic
system is no longer fixed, as was the case with a proton or
resonance in the final state. In addition to the scattering we can
thus choose a second variable. Here it is the energy E’
of the outgoing electron. The structure functions are measured
experimentally, analyzing the dependence of the cross section on the scattering
angle, like in the elastic case. The big discovery at SLAC in the late
60s was that the structure functions do not depend on nu and
q^2 separately but on their ratio x_Bj, which is equal to q^2 over twice
the mass of the proton times nu. The variable is named after
its inventor James D. Bjorken. The phenomenon was called scaling at that
time because of the very general observation that the dimensionless variable x_Bj does
not depend on any energy nor mass scale. Structure functions follow in fact
scaling if inside the nucleon there exist sub-structures with which
the photon interacts elastically. This interpretation of scaling is
best demonstrated in the limit of large equal square, where the interaction between quarks
is negligible compared to the force transmitted by the photon. Quarks then act as quasi free particles with which the photon interacts
in an incoherent manner. To respect the kinematic
constraint in such an elastic electron-quark scattering,
the photon can only interact with a quark which carries a fraction
x_Bj of the nucleon momentum. Consequently, the cross section is
proportional to the probability to find such a quark in the nucleon. In the limit of square going to infinity, the structure functions W_i
tend toward the function F_i(x) which are directly
related to the distribution of the fractional momentum x_i
carried by quarks of type i. The experiment at SLAC have in fact shown that the 
phenomenon already occurs at the moderate squared. The structure function W_2,
as a function of the kinematical variable omega,
which is about equal to 1/x_Bj, smoothens with increasing the q^2
beyond the resonance region, and then follows a universal function
of x_Bj independent of q^2. The kinematic constraint imposed
by elastic scattering of point-like particles inside
the proton is indeed respected. However, the scaling of
structure functions is not exact. This figure show modern measurements
that come from experiments at the electron proton collider HERA. The curves and data for different x
are expressed by a constant in order to be all visible
in the same graph. At small x, so at small quark momenta, the structure function varies
strongly with q^2 because of the contributions from virtual gluons
enriching the quark contents. The smaller deviation at
large x are more subtle. The coupling constant
of strong interactions depends on the momentum transfer. It is not really a constant. We will come back to this
astonishing fact in video 5.4. Structure functions can thus be used to
measure the momentum distribution of quarks inside nucleons. We qualitatively demonstrate the behavior of 
the structure function F_2(x) based on successively refined
hypotheses on the dynamics of quarks. If the nucleon consisted of three
quarks without interaction, x will be fixed to 1/3 for each quark, and F_2 will be a delta function at this value. If it were a state where
quarks are bound together via gluons,
the average value of x would still be 1/3, but with a wider distribution
around this value. If we finally take into
account that quarks can emit virtual gluons which can split
into a quark-antiquark pair at low energy, we expect that the quark distribution
tends to fill up at x -> 0. The experimental data indeed to
follow this qualitative picture. First of all for the valence quarks,
that is the two up quarks and one down quark for the proton, the structure function varies around
1/3 with a strong enhancement at small x by additional quark-antiquark 
pairs produced by gluons. The integral of the distribution
is twice as large for the up quark than for
the down quark, as it should be. The contribution gluons of is indeed
seen in the contribution of s and sbar quarks which would not be
present in the nucleon otherwise. When integrating this distribution we
see that only about 1/2 of the proton momentum is carried by quarks. The rest is carried by gluons. In the next video, we discuss mesons,
bound states between quarks and antiquarks. [MUSIC]