[MUSIC] To begin this course,
we need to first discuss some basics. The most fundamental question for
us is what are data? While this may seem like
a straightforward question, numerous organizations have tackled it
resulting in a range of definitions. It's important to note that data
are different for various disciplines and different context. By the end of this lesson, you will be introduced to multiple
types of data in an array of contexts. Data come in many forms from numeric and textual data to biological samples and
physical collections. You will also be able to make
the distinction between research data and other associated researcher materials. Some of which may be
required alongside the data to understand the data themselves. And finally, and this is probably one of the most
important concepts in the entire course. You will understand data in the context
of the research data life cycle. To understand data management, is to
understand data in all of its constructs. From project planning, through the
collection of data to archiving that data as a research output after
the project period has ended. First, let's take a look at
how others have defined data. The National Institutes of Health, or NIH,
define data as “recorded factual material commonly accepted in
the scientific community as necessary to validate
research findings.” Key concepts here include recorded and accessible data that others may look
at to validate a studies findings. The National Science Foundation or
NSF considers data to be something, determined by the community of interest
through the process of peer review and project management. NSF’s definition points out the data are
essential to the research community and not just to individual researchers or
research teams. NSF also offers some examples of data that make the rather abstract
definition easier to understand. As we know, examples are always useful. The NSF list includes data, publications, samples, physical collections,
software, and models. It's interesting that NSF includes
data as an example of data, but the point here is there are many types
of data beyond quantitative datasets. The National Endowment for
the Humanities, or NEH, also offers examples of data that
includes citations, software code, algorithms, digital tools,
documentation, databases, geospatial coordinates,
reports and articles. It is interesting to note that NEH
includes a wider array of data types than we see from NSF or NIH. Any of these data types NEH
defines as humanities data, or “materials generated or collected during
the course of conducting research.” So what are some key concepts
in these definitions? For NIH and NSF, the research
community establishes definitions of data that involve validity and
presume data sharing among the community. When you look at the examples provided
by any of these organizations, you can see that data come in
quite a significant variety of forms, almost to the point of being nebulous. What is important to understand here is that data are products of research
that are heterogeneous across and contextualized within
the academic disciplines. So to reiterate,
data should be valid, shared, and are heterogeneous, and contextualized
within research communities. [MUSIC]