[SOUND] [BLANK_AUDIO] hello. This is Week 4 of Interactive Computer
Graphics Course. The topic of this week is Deformation and
Animation. So, last week we discussed the moving of
3D shapes. They are kind of rigid shapes, there is no
deformation there is not motion. In this we discuss how to make them move,
how to make them form. One way to change the pose of articulated
character, our frog. And the other possibility is, is to deform
the objects consistent with deformed object like frogs
or robes or jellyfish [UNKNOWN]. And this as you see this is much more
difficult because there are lots more information there the time
sequence for the articles positions. And then we will discuss [INAUDIBLE]
toughest to control so many information. So these are the topics we discussed here. The first one is Clothing Manipulations,
so putting garment on the character. And the next one is Layer Operations for controlling stacked clothes or robes, and
so on. And then, we will describe Spatial Key
Framing technique to animate character. And then also, the Procedural Deformation
technique for animating jellyfish and other [UNKNOWN]
and so on. And then, finally we will describe a method to handle large motion capture
data. The first one is Clothing Manipulation. So this is work titled as Clothing
Manipulation and published in 2002. The problem we want to address here is
that clothing manipulation is difficult. Many people are working on clothes
simulation, but I thought that not so many people working on manipulation
or control of the clothing. So this is, these are a popular techniques
in the field. The one poss, popular approach is to put
rigid clothes pieces along the body and then start simulation and the
clothes will snap to the body. This is very popular with clothes. However, from users point of view it's
very tedious to place piece of clothing around the body with 3D
rotation and 3D position control. And the other popular demonstration is
this kind of real-time simulation of clothes
material. But from user interest point of view, it's like manipulating a handkerchief
using a chopstick. It's not very good for putting clothing on
that character. So what we want to do here, is a way to
make it easy to put clothes on a character in a
very flex way, flexible way. You know, there are so many different ways
to put clothing on a character. And we want to develop technique to make
it easy to test many variations. Okay let me show you, a video. So we introduce two techniques here,
wrapping and then dragging, the first one is
wrapping. [BLANK_AUDIO] So here you have a 3D character here, and then we try to put clothing on this 3D
character. And on the right hand you have a garment
editor. And then, you design a garment here as a
2D pattern. So you will, you design a 2D shape, and
then put this garment onto this character. And I just said, keep options to push and
pull, each individual body, allowing this 3D body, it can be
very timing consuming and difficult. So our approach is to use painting
interface. So user [UNKNOWN] specify which part
should go where. So this line, these three lines should go
here, then here, and then here. And then with this thing, the system tries
to put the clothing on the character so that these
painted marks matches together. So just press the wrap button. [BLANK_AUDIO] And then you will instantly get the final
shape. And I think much more faster and efficient
than standard dragging operations. [BLANK_AUDIO] So here's another example. Here we tried to make our [UNKNOWN] and
then we tried to put this garment on this
character. So you draw lines here. And then there is also a line here,
corresponding lines on this character. And then just press wrap, and you suddenly
get [UNKNOWN] on this character. And here is a little bit more complicated
example. So you would paint four strokes and then also corresponding strokes on the
character. So in this way you can get a specific way
of putting the garment on the character [BLANK_AUDIO] Now here's a little bit more complicated
example. So you can quickly design this kind of
t-shirt and then a shirt and then you can put in this
garment. Again, if you use traditional drag-ons
[INAUDIBLE] operations it can be very tedious to control this. [BLANK_AUDIO] So this [UNKNOWN]. So instead of moving around the garment,
the system actually grows a garment on this
character. So next operation, is Surface dragging. So after putting a garment on a character you may want to relocate or adjust the
position. And this is technique. [BLANK_AUDIO] So here basically idea, so typical
dragging real time clothes simulation is just move
single objects. And then rely on physics to move around
the other vertices. However, this is not convenient for making
a drastic, a large deform, large motion around the
body surface. [BLANK_AUDIO] So this here is an example of traditional
single vertex dragging. So it can make a very local shape change, but it's very hard to make a global
change. So what people propose is called surface
dragging. So as you drag a single vertex, the the system dies, propogates motion
allowing the [UNKNOWN]. It allows a small motion, all bodies are
going to move together, so you can make a big change
with a single drag. [BLANK_AUDIO] So here's an example. So you can easily up or down or even you can rotate the skirt around the body
surface. And this kind of dynamic fast motion is not possible with standard single vertex
simulation method. So you can move this cloth along the body
surface. [BLANK_AUDIO] And the system also takes care of the
basic physics, so there is no penetration, and then also
some gravity effect. And you can get further control by putting
pushpins on the body surface. So you can put pushpins and then you
constrain the position. And after putting pushpin it's a fix, the
location is fixed and than you can get further
control. Yeah again, by pushing we can change
lengths, by propagation, so you can just move one part
of the garment. [BLANK_AUDIO] We can also use, some painting interface
for changing the position after putting the garment on
the character. So this is useful to make discontinuous
[UNKNOWN] change, like this one, so you can suddenly jump part of the cloth
to the arm. [BLANK_AUDIO] So here is a couple of examples of 3D
models created using the technique. So here is an octopus, a mommy octopus. So you can put long garment, clothes on
the octopus. And again, I think this is very tedious to
do using standard the dragging operation. [BLANK_AUDIO] And this is something we wanted to do
using the interface, is can put clothing on her
head. And you can play around with this. [BLANK_AUDIO] Okay, so that's video. So as I said what we propose is surface
dragging. So traditional approach is single vertex
dragging, or rigid dragging moves all the vertices into the
same direction. But here, what we propose is propagation
of moving vector allowing to body to move slightly
this way. Okay so let me briefly describe the implementation of these techniques, so
wrapping and dragging. And then, past experience wrapping always
wins. So wrapping is, as I said, instead of
moving entire integrated entire clothes to the body, we actually glue the
cloth on the body surface. That's the basic idea. In this way, we can operate discard
clothing detection and so on. So here is a look at [UNKNOWN]. That's the beginning system fast computer
dependency graph or propagation graph. Starting from the painted triangle to the
other triangles. So this is a directive graph. And then, according to the directive
graph, dependence graph, we grows the cloth to the body
surface. So first, we transplant, 2D clothes to 3D
surface. And then we paste, a new triangles, one by
one, on the body surface, using, according to
the dependency graph. An interesting question here is how to
grow the surface. Please consider there are two possible
approaches. One is you paste, triangle one by one,
pasting on, directly on the body. And another possibility is, instead of
directly painting, it's a kind of more straight a, along the cloth
surface. And we actually implemented the first one,
as [UNKNOWN] approach. However, we found it problematic and we
then switched to this planar growth, let me describe it a
little more. So if you stick to the body you can have a
problem if you have a, like a sleeve. You know, if you start to make a sleeve
from both sides, if you stick the body here, there
are so many. It causes many many folds, you know,
around here. So we find it problematic. If you use a planar growth, then it works
this way, and then afterwards physics will stitch together
and then you will get a reasonable result. And here's another example, if you use
stick to body, then if you start growing here it goes
around the body. And it is not very desirable. So we decided to use planar growth for the
ruffle. Okay, so now let me move on to our
dragging implementation. So as I said, dragging is to propagate the
motion along the body and then all the vertices move
together along the body surface. And at the beginning as, as soon as you
click down and start dragging, system fast the compute this again dependency graph or propagation
graph. Starting from [UNKNOWN] vertices, vertex
and to the rest of the vertices. Then again, there are two, two
possibilities. One is to propagate cloth's, along the
cloth’s surface. And then, you know, as you see the vector. You know vector changes along, across
surface. The other possibility is changes the vector direction according to the body
surface. And then, we again tested the poles. And then the [UNKNOWN] naive approach was this changing vector along the body,
up-close surface. However, it turned out to be very ,very unstable because he shape changes all the
time. However, if we switch to body based propagation, the body shape doesn't
change. It is very stable. We found that this is very much better. So in summary, in this video we discussed
clothing manipulation methods. So we introduced our our painting
interface for wrapping and also our dragging along the whole
surface dragging. And the following implementation, wrapping
is achieved by growing or pasting triangles one by one on the
body surface. And for the dragging we propagate some
motion along the body surface. So to allow more the technique itself is
published as clothing manipulation. And if you want to know more about clothes simulation, yeah, there are so
many information. But I just want to point to a very famous, good paper called Large Steps in
Cloth Simulation. It's a little bit old paper, but I think
still very popular and a good starting point for
further study. Thank you.