[sound] [blank_audio] hello.
this is week 4 of interactive computer graphics course.
the topic of this week is deformation and animation.
so, last week we discussed the moving of 3d shapes.
they are kind of rigid shapes, there is no deformation there is not motion.
in this we discuss how to make them move, how to make them form.
one way to change the pose of articulated character, our frog.
and the other possibility is, is to deform the objects consistent with deformed object like frogs or robes or jellyfish [unknown].
and this as you see this is much more difficult because there are lots more information there the time sequence for the articles positions.
and then we will discuss [inaudible] toughest to control so many information.
so these are the topics we discussed here.
the first one is clothing manipulations, so putting garment on the character.
and the next one is layer operations for controlling stacked clothes or robes, and so on.
and then, we will describe spatial key framing technique to animate character.
and then also, the procedural deformation technique for animating jellyfish and other [unknown] and so on.
and then, finally we will describe a method to handle large motion capture data.
the first one is clothing manipulation.
so this is work titled as clothing manipulation and published in 2002. the problem we want to address here is that clothing manipulation is difficult.
many people are working on clothes simulation, but i thought that not so many people working on manipulation or control of the clothing.
so this is, these are a popular techniques in the field.
the one poss, popular approach is to put rigid clothes pieces along the body and then start simulation and the clothes will snap to the body.
this is very popular with clothes.
however, from users point of view it's very tedious to place piece of clothing around the body with 3d rotation and 3d position control.
and the other popular demonstration is this kind of real-time simulation of clothes material.
but from user interest point of view, it's like manipulating a handkerchief using a chopstick.
it's not very good for putting clothing on that character.
so what we want to do here, is a way to make it easy to put clothes on a character in a very flex way, flexible way.
you know, there are so many different ways to put clothing on a character.
and we want to develop technique to make it easy to test many variations.
okay let me show you, a video.
so we introduce two techniques here, wrapping and then dragging, the first one is wrapping.
[blank_audio] so here you have a 3d character here, and then we try to put clothing on this 3d character.
and on the right hand you have a garment editor.
and then, you design a garment here as a 2d pattern.
so you will, you design a 2d shape, and then put this garment onto this character.
and i just said, keep options to push and pull, each individual body, allowing this 3d body, it can be very timing consuming and difficult.
so our approach is to use painting interface.
so user [unknown] specify which part should go where.
so this line, these three lines should go here, then here, and then here.
and then with this thing, the system tries to put the clothing on the character so that these painted marks matches together.
so just press the wrap button.
[blank_audio] and then you will instantly get the final shape.
and i think much more faster and efficient than standard dragging operations.
[blank_audio] so here's another example.
here we tried to make our [unknown] and then we tried to put this garment on this character.
so you draw lines here.
and then there is also a line here, corresponding lines on this character.
and then just press wrap, and you suddenly get [unknown] on this character.
and here is a little bit more complicated example.
so you would paint four strokes and then also corresponding strokes on the character.
so in this way you can get a specific way of putting the garment on the character [blank_audio] now here's a little bit more complicated example.
so you can quickly design this kind of t-shirt and then a shirt and then you can put in this garment.
again, if you use traditional drag-ons [inaudible] operations it can be very tedious to control this.
[blank_audio] so this [unknown].
so instead of moving around the garment, the system actually grows a garment on this character.
so next operation, is surface dragging.
so after putting a garment on a character you may want to relocate or adjust the position.
and this is technique.
[blank_audio] so here basically idea, so typical dragging real time clothes simulation is just move single objects.
and then rely on physics to move around the other vertices.
however, this is not convenient for making a drastic, a large deform, large motion around the body surface.
[blank_audio] so this here is an example of traditional single vertex dragging.
so it can make a very local shape change, but it's very hard to make a global change.
so what people propose is called surface dragging.
so as you drag a single vertex, the the system dies, propogates motion allowing the [unknown].
it allows a small motion, all bodies are going to move together, so you can make a big change with a single drag.
[blank_audio] so here's an example.
so you can easily up or down or even you can rotate the skirt around the body surface.
and this kind of dynamic fast motion is not possible with standard single vertex simulation method.
so you can move this cloth along the body surface.
[blank_audio] and the system also takes care of the basic physics, so there is no penetration, and then also some gravity effect.
and you can get further control by putting pushpins on the body surface.
so you can put pushpins and then you constrain the position.
and after putting pushpin it's a fix, the location is fixed and than you can get further control.
yeah again, by pushing we can change lengths, by propagation, so you can just move one part of the garment.
[blank_audio] we can also use, some painting interface for changing the position after putting the garment on the character.
so this is useful to make discontinuous [unknown] change, like this one, so you can suddenly jump part of the cloth to the arm.
[blank_audio] so here is a couple of examples of 3d models created using the technique.
so here is an octopus, a mommy octopus.
so you can put long garment, clothes on the octopus.
and again, i think this is very tedious to do using standard the dragging operation.
[blank_audio] and this is something we wanted to do using the interface, is can put clothing on her head.
and you can play around with this.
[blank_audio] okay, so that's video.
so as i said what we propose is surface dragging.
so traditional approach is single vertex dragging, or rigid dragging moves all the vertices into the same direction.
but here, what we propose is propagation of moving vector allowing to body to move slightly this way.
okay so let me briefly describe the implementation of these techniques, so wrapping and dragging.
and then, past experience wrapping always wins.
so wrapping is, as i said, instead of moving entire integrated entire clothes to the body, we actually glue the cloth on the body surface.
that's the basic idea.
in this way, we can operate discard clothing detection and so on.
so here is a look at [unknown].
that's the beginning system fast computer dependency graph or propagation graph.
starting from the painted triangle to the other triangles.
so this is a directive graph.
and then, according to the directive graph, dependence graph, we grows the cloth to the body surface.
so first, we transplant, 2d clothes to 3d surface.
and then we paste, a new triangles, one by one, on the body surface, using, according to the dependency graph.
an interesting question here is how to grow the surface.
please consider there are two possible approaches.
one is you paste, triangle one by one, pasting on, directly on the body.
and another possibility is, instead of directly painting, it's a kind of more straight a, along the cloth surface.
and we actually implemented the first one, as [unknown] approach.
however, we found it problematic and we then switched to this planar growth, let me describe it a little more.
so if you stick to the body you can have a problem if you have a, like a sleeve.
you know, if you start to make a sleeve from both sides, if you stick the body here, there are so many.
it causes many many folds, you know, around here.
so we find it problematic.
if you use a planar growth, then it works this way, and then afterwards physics will stitch together and then you will get a reasonable result.
and here's another example, if you use stick to body, then if you start growing here it goes around the body.
and it is not very desirable.
so we decided to use planar growth for the ruffle.
okay, so now let me move on to our dragging implementation.
so as i said, dragging is to propagate the motion along the body and then all the vertices move together along the body surface.
and at the beginning as, as soon as you click down and start dragging, system fast the compute this again dependency graph or propagation graph.
starting from [unknown] vertices, vertex and to the rest of the vertices.
then again, there are two, two possibilities.
one is to propagate cloth's, along the cloth␙s surface.
and then, you know, as you see the vector.
you know vector changes along, across surface.
the other possibility is changes the vector direction according to the body surface.
and then, we again tested the poles.
and then the [unknown] naive approach was this changing vector along the body, up-close surface.
however, it turned out to be very ,very unstable because he shape changes all the time.
however, if we switch to body based propagation, the body shape doesn't change.
it is very stable.
we found that this is very much better.
so in summary, in this video we discussed clothing manipulation methods.
so we introduced our our painting interface for wrapping and also our dragging along the whole surface dragging.
and the following implementation, wrapping is achieved by growing or pasting triangles one by one on the body surface.
and for the dragging we propagate some motion along the body surface.
so to allow more the technique itself is published as clothing manipulation.
and if you want to know more about clothes simulation, yeah, there are so many information.
but i just want to point to a very famous, good paper called large steps in cloth simulation.
it's a little bit old paper, but i think still very popular and a good starting point for further study.
thank you.
