Okay. So next task, next topic is motion
database. So the work we introduce here is a
retrieval on visualization of human motion data via
stick figures. The motivation here is there is a large capture database, motion capture
database available. So you have loads of human motion
captured, lot's of them. So by combining them you can. Create interesting animation very easily. However, the problem is that it's very,
very difficult to find desired motion. Two problems, it's very difficult to see
what's in the database already, so browsing can
be difficult. Another problem is that it's very
difficult to search. You may want to search for specific motion, but specifying desired emotion is
not easy. So that’s a problem. Our approach is to use comic visualization
of stick figure representation. Stick figures for comic visualization and
search, enabling us to use the image or motion capture data in this kind
of comic strip like representation. So in this way you can get emotion just by
watching a static representation and then you get
the idea of the motion. And then another is a sketch based search. So you quickly sketch a desired emotion and then the system automatically delivers
it. And what's interesting here is that not
only user draws a pose. But user can also specify the motion,
trajectory, or give a joint to find the target motion,
efficiently. So, let me show you a video. So here is a representation, taken this 3D
motion as input. The system creates this motion as
representation. By looking at this comic you can
understand the concept of motion. And this is stick figure sketch based
search. On the left you draw a query and the system continuously shows the
search result given this new input. So fast we show the generation of stick
figure comic strip from motion. So this is input, animation. And then we analyze the speed, and then we
get the key poses, this way. And then we select the most effective viewing angle, and then render the
results. And that is all. You get a very inventive presentation. Here is a couple of examples. Here it is in relation to the pose itself, the system also shows the most dynamic,
most projectory. To provide more of the information. [BLANK_AUDIO] So this is an example of database
browsing. So usually in order to browse this kind of
data base, you have to watch and then you draw the motion
one by one. But here you can quickly see what's going
on by looking at the go about view. So our next part of the search. So, on the left side you draw, sketch the
desired shape of the stick figure. So head, and leg, and body, and as you see the system continuously provides
feedback of a matching result. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now interesting here is that in addition
to the pose itself you then can control this kind of project
speed, speed line. So this specifies our movement direction. So here in this way you can move the, identify the shape that waves the hand
this way. So this can filter out motion from top to
down. And here is the opposite motion. So we have found that this kind of speed runs is very useful for this
[unintelligible] specific motion. [BLANK_AUDIO] User can retrieve longer sequence by
sketching multiple sequences like fast kick, next
punch. And then do something next, then you got
the system searches for a motion clip that
satisfies this request. Okay, so let me briefly describe the
algorithm. So first is visualization, and next is
search. So visualizations, the one question to
answer is what, which pose to use? You know, you have long sequence, so many
poses, and they have to pick couple of important
key poses. So here in this system, we've used a scene
where the character changes it's motion, movement
direction or when the motion is stopped. But here, you uses, here the direction
suddenly changes, so we pick it as the [UNKNOWN]
pose. And after picking the [UNKNOWN] poses next
question is which viewing angle to use. There are many ways to lend specifically
the shape. In 2D, so you don't have to identify a
most effective view, we use a perpendicular, it's a new direction which is perpendicular to the movement
direction. So here an example, when the, this
character is making a kicking motion, we believe
that this motion, side view, is better than front
view because you can see the motion of the leg. So we compute the trajectory of the joint,
most moving joint, and then we get a direction most
perpendicular to the prominent motion. And search. So for search, one key observation we got
is, joint, specific XY coordinator, joint
locations are not very accurate. Because in user's former sketch, you know,
joint [UNKNOWN] changes so much, and is so
unstable. So we cannot rely on joint location, so
basic positions. However, we [UNKNOWN] orientation of joint
angle, is relatively stable. [UNKNOWN] in former user sketch. So we, we decided to use a 2D direction,
orientation of each joint, or each bone, as a key for the
search. Another important thing is that there are
multiple matching possibilities, so we consider all
possibilities in the search. For example, you now, if you a sketch,
this kind of character. The user draws only one arm and one leg. So there are so many possibilities. This can represent left leg or right leg. And this can represent left arm or right
arm. So we just consider all the possibilities
and then we turn over and watch the result of these
priorities. Okay. So here is a summary. So we presented a efficient access to
large motion capsule database. So we presented comic base visualization,
and sketch base search. And we discussed iden, identification
keyboard's is and during directions. And those are we, the measurements that we
use bone direction for the search. So to learn more, original paper is called
Retrieval and Visualization of Human Motion Data by,
via stick figures. And the comic-strip presentation, we get
idea from a Comic Chat system, which takes a chat
communication sequence. And the [INAUDIBLE] generates comic strips
representing the chat conversation. And also there's a paper on 3D shape retrieval, using sketching as input, and
this is called search engine for 3D models and
this can be interesting little paper to look
at. And finally, posing. Character posing by stick figure was
already explored in a paper called sketching interface for
articulated figure animation. So they take 2D stick figure illustration
and then generate smooth 3D animation by doing
multiple, stick figures. But they did not use motion capture. Okay, so this is a summary fo this week. So in this week we discussed the formation
and animation. So instead of taking care of a rigid 3D
shape. We we discussed how to control articulated
character and also the form of our shapes. And we discussed clothing manipulation,
how to put clothing on that character. And the layer operations, how to store up
layers in stacked clothing or ropes. And we discussed special key frames to make smooth animation of our articulated
characters. And procedure deformation means to
generate animation of jelly fishes and wild. And then find the way we discussed how to efficiently access motion
calculator database. So, thank you.