[music] to begin this course, we need to first discuss some basics.
the most fundamental question for us is what are data?
while this may seem like a straightforward question, numerous organizations have tackled it resulting in a range of definitions.
it's important to note that data are different for various disciplines and different context.
by the end of this lesson, you will be introduced to multiple types of data in an array of contexts.
data come in many forms from numeric and textual data to biological samples and physical collections.
you will also be able to make the distinction between research data and other associated researcher materials.
some of which may be required alongside the data to understand the data themselves.
and finally, and this is probably one of the most important concepts in the entire course.
you will understand data in the context of the research data life cycle.
to understand data management, is to understand data in all of its constructs.
from project planning, through the collection of data to archiving that data as a research output after the project period has ended.
first, let's take a look at how others have defined data.
the national institutes of health, or nih, define data as ␜recorded factual material commonly accepted in the scientific community as necessary to validate research findings.␝ key concepts here include recorded and accessible data that others may look at to validate a studies findings.
the national science foundation or nsf considers data to be something, determined by the community of interest through the process of peer review and project management.
nsf␙s definition points out the data are essential to the research community and not just to individual researchers or research teams.
nsf also offers some examples of data that make the rather abstract definition easier to understand.
as we know, examples are always useful.
the nsf list includes data, publications, samples, physical collections, software, and models.
it's interesting that nsf includes data as an example of data, but the point here is there are many types of data beyond quantitative datasets.
the national endowment for the humanities, or neh, also offers examples of data that includes citations, software code, algorithms, digital tools, documentation, databases, geospatial coordinates, reports and articles.
it is interesting to note that neh includes a wider array of data types than we see from nsf or nih.
any of these data types neh defines as humanities data, or ␜materials generated or collected during the course of conducting research.␝ so what are some key concepts in these definitions?
for nih and nsf, the research community establishes definitions of data that involve validity and presume data sharing among the community.
when you look at the examples provided by any of these organizations, you can see that data come in quite a significant variety of forms, almost to the point of being nebulous.
what is important to understand here is that data are products of research that are heterogeneous across and contextualized within the academic disciplines.
so to reiterate, data should be valid, shared, and are heterogeneous, and contextualized within research communities.
[music]
