[music] let's look at different types of data.
probably what most of us think about when we use the term data is numeric or tabular data, what researchers might refer to as quantitative data.
and then there are other types.
samples such as dna or blood samples, physical collections, including plant specimens, software programs and code, databases, algorithms, model, and geodatabases.
obviously, these are not all the types of data out there.
can you think of other examples?
what types have you encountered?
please share them in the forum.
there are other research products that need to be considered alongside data in order for the data to be meaningful.
these include questionnaires, code books, and descriptions of methodologies.
jillian wallis, elizabeth rolando, and christine borgman describe this as background data.
background data provides contextual information important in the analysis of the primary foreground data collected for analysis.
for example, what the temperature was at the time a sensor reading is taken may be critical to understanding variances in data a sensor collected.
and then there are research products built on the data that are essential for secondary analysis or meta-analysis and for content dissemination.
these include reports, conference posters, articles, white papers, and books.
and we should include websites and blogs.
another essential concept in data management is metadata.
this is a term that you will hear me refer to throughout this course.
metadata is often defined as data about data.
this, of course, is a basic and circular definition that may not help us too much.
more specifically, metadata is structured information that describes, explains, locates, or otherwise represents something else.
for our interest in this course, that something else is, of course, our target research data.
metadata makes it easier to retrieve, use or manage an information source.
data are nothing without metadata, especially digital data.
one cannot search for, identify, or interpret data without robust metadata.
for each dataset, we need to know at minimum, who created the data, when the data were created or published, and a title or descriptive name used to refer to the dataset.
in this digital landscape, we also need a unique and persistent identifier for the data so that we can locate it, even if the data are moved to a different location on the web.
beyond these metadata elements, we can increase our ability to find and identify data if we have information about these, along with the other 11 metadata elements that make up the dublin core metadata element set.
dublin core allows us to find and identify data.
but to be able to interpret and use data as they were intended, we also need to know quite a bit of other information about the data.
the data documentation initiative, or ddi, developed a metadata scheme specifically for this purpose.
along with basic dublin core elements, ddi prescribes additional metadata elements that provide specific information about data collection processes, variable-level descriptions, and methodologies.
[music]
