[MUSIC] In this sixth module,
we are discussing weak interactions. In this sixth video, we'll talk
about the properties of the Z boson, which transmits the neutral weak force and can be considered as the heavy
brother of the photon. After following this video you will
know its properties, its mass, and the way to measure it and
its couplings to matter. In video 4.5, we have already discussed
the prototype process e+e- -> µ+µ- for the production of fermion
pairs by electron-positron annihilation. In addition to electromagnetic
interactions, as shown in the left graph, this process can be mediated
by neutral weak interactions, as shown in the right graph. Since initial and final states
are the same, one must add the amplitudes. In the cross-section,
we thus find three terms to lowest order. The first term, sigma_gamma, contains the
square of the photon exchange amplitude. The second one, sigma_Z,
that of the Z exchange. And the third one, sigma_int,
the interference between the two. For the photon alone, we already
quoted the cross-section in video 4.5. The total differential cross-section, which also takes into account the other
two contributions, contains a term symmetric in the scattering angle theta
like the one we had found for the photon. The scattering angle, I remind you, is the angle between
the incoming e- and the outgoing mu-. The coefficient A_0 of this
term now contains a new contribution due to weak interactions. There is also an additional asymmetric
term proportional to the coefficient A_1. The coefficients contain the real part and
the square of a resonance term, r, which comes from the resonant
production of Z bosons when the total e+e- energy approaches the Z mass. It contains the Breit-Wigner
function characteristic for the propagator of massive virtual bosons. The coupling constants, g_V and g_A,
depend on the electric charge and the weak isospin of the matter particles
involved in each vertex. Due to the value of the weak mixing angle,
sin^2 theta roughly equal to 1/4, g_V has a small value for charged
leptons, g_A is simply -1/2. At low energies,
square root of s much less than M_Z, where r is roughly equal to 0, the influence of weak
interactions is negligible. We fall back onto the result
found by electromagnetism, that is to say, A_0 = 1 and A_1 = 0. The terms proportional to the real part
of r are due to electro-weak interference and are important in the intermediate
region where neither the photon nor the Z exchange are dominant. And finally, close to the Z mass,
where the terms proportional to r^2 dominate, we find that the weak
interaction is two orders of magnitude stronger than the electromagnetic one,
due to the amplification by the resonance. The Z resonance manifests itself by a
enormous peak in the total cross-section. Electro-weak interference causes a large, angular asymmetry on
the flanks of the resonance. At low energies, the cross-section depends
on the electromagnetic coupling alpha and the square of the center of mass energy s, like sigma = 4pi alpha^2/(3s), the characteristic size and shape of
purely electromagnetic interactions. As the energy approaches the Z peak,
we see an enormous increase and weak interactions dominates the process,
thanks to the resonant exchange of Z bosons that we now may
call almost real instead of virtual. Far above the resonance, the two processes
add up and are of comparable size. The interference term introduces
an asymmetry into the angular distribution, which we had
already noted in Video 4.5. To quantify it,
one defines a forward-backward asymmetry, A_FB, comparing the rate of forward 
– theta less than 90 degrees – and backward scattering
– theta bigger than 90 degrees. This asymmetry is large and negative
below the resonance, goes through zero at s roughly equal to M_Z squared and becomes
large and positive above the resonance. In the immediate vicinity of
the Z resonance, that is to say, a few Z widths away from the Z mass,
we can neglect both electromagnetic interactions and
electromagnetic interference. For all e+e- interactions into
a pair of point-like fermions, we then obtain a cross-section
with a peak given by r squared. In this region, the Z boson is quasi-real. The maximum of the cross-section can be expressed in terms of the decay
width gamma_Z of the real Z boson. The partial widths of the Z decay into
electrons and other fermions depend on their weak and electromagnetic
charges T_3 and Q, as shown on the left. In addition, the number of colors N_C
comes in for our quark final states. The partial and total width can
be derived from the shape and height of the measured cross-section, for antifermion species with a mass
smaller than half the Z boson mass. This even includes neutrinos, which
are not seen in the measured final state, as are any other invisible particles. In this way, experiments have fixed
the number of neutrino species with mass of the neutrino less than mass of
the Z divided by two to exactly three with very high position,
as you can see in the graph on the right. There are thus only three
generations of light matter. The position of the peak determines that
mass of the Z boson with high precision. Here we show the results
of the four experiments at the CERN Large Electron-Positron collider,
LEP, the predecessor of the LHC. The mass determination by the resonance
method is precise to two parts in 10^5. This accuracy would correspond
to a measurement of my own weight to about two grams. This may not sound very impressive, but
my lifetime is hopefully of the order of 2 billion seconds, and
I weigh about 10^5 grams. The Z boson lifetime is 
3 10^-25 seconds, and it weighs 1.6251 10-22 grams. At such a level of precision, unexpected
effects influence the measurement. As incredible as it may seem, the phase
of the moon influences this measurement. Just like sea water, the Earth's crust
goes through high and low tides, with a height difference
of about 20 centimeters. The tidal waves deform the LEP storage
ring by some millimeters compared to its total length of 27 kilometers. At constant frequency,
this changes the beam momentum, and focalization amplifies this effect. Consequently, the beam energy depends
on the moon phase at the level of 100 ppm, parts per million. This effect has been measured using
resonant depolarization, a method to determine the energy of the circulating
beam with an impressive precision. You see the result in this graph, which shows the beam energy over large
portions of the passage of a tidal wave. And even the passage of the high speed
TGV train in nearby France influences the measurement. Since the TGV is powered by
a single-phase DC current, its passage induces parasitic
currents into the storage ring. Because of their hysteresis, the magnets
remember the train schedule, as you can see on the right. This, again, leads to a slight
variation of the collider energy. All of these incredible
effects had to be taken into account to arrive at the final result for
the Z boson mass. This should allow you to appreciate
the impressive precision with which the mass can be measured by
resonant production of a particle. The method remains a specialty
of electron-positron colliders, since the point-like initial state allows
an excellent definition of the kinematics. The coupling of the Z boson and
two leptons, g_V and g_A, are measured using the total and
differential cross-sections as well as the polarization dependence of
e+e- annihilation into leptons. One finds confirmation of our
choice of a weak isospin as up and down members of a doublet. One also finds that all generations
have the same couplings to an accuracy of a few times 10^-3. For charged leptons, the measured
values of g_V are close to zero, and g_A close to -1/2, as we expect. For neutrinos, one finds g_V = g_A = 1/2, as one would expect for fermions with
weak isospin up and electric charge zero. In the next video, we will talk about
purely weak interactions, that is to say, weak decays of quarks. [MUSIC]