[music] one of the other areas that may be problematic when a researcher wishes to share his or her data, is resolving and clarifying data ownership and intellectual property rights issues.
intellectual property rights can be defined as rights acquired over any work created or invented with the intellectual effort of an individual or entity.
the question of how intellectual property rights relate to data in particular can complicate this issue.
as we have discussed, research data can come in many different forms which can affect whether data are subject to intellectual property rights, different legal jurisdictions may also apply.
they have particular standards for creative works, to data differently.
because of these complexities, in order to effectively share data, researchers should first resolve any data ownership issues.
resolving data ownership issues early, is particularly important because the person who has ownership over the data ultimately controls its dissemination, preservation, and destruction.
ownership issues can become even more problematic and confusing because of the various stakeholders involved in collecting and generating data.
today, collaborative projects, especially cross institutional collaborations or international collaborations can complicate data ownership.
for this reason, it is important for researchers to come to an agreement at the beginning of a project.
concerning how, when, and by whom the data will be used as the basis of publications as well as shared in the future.
institutional policies can also influence data ownership.
in some cases, if a researcher is working for a university, then the data may technically be owned by the institution.
researchers should be cognizant of institutional data management and copyright policies when considering data sharing.
it is important that researchers contact their institution if they are unsure about their intellectual property rights.
funders may have policies related to ownership rights of data that stipulate where and how a researcher should share their data or impose restrictions on data dissemination.
so being aware of funder policies is also essential.
in the case of using extant proprietary data, researchers are often required to gain permission from the producer of the data in order to legally share the original or derived data.
because of the many stakeholders and policies that can affect data ownership, researchers may be confused over who actually owns the data which may make them reticent to share the data.
we encourage researchers to contact information and legal professionals early in the research data lifecycle, to assist them in determining what polices may affect data ownership.
[music]
