[music].
let's think a bit, about circles.
let's think about the function little f  of x equals the square root of 1 minus x  squared.
what do we get if we graph that function?
we draw my coordinate axes, right.
and i'm trying to graph the function.
y equals the square root of 1 minus x  squared and yeah, when i graph that, i  get a semi-circle.
now, we can compute this integral  geometrically.
well, let's think about the integral from  0 to 1 of the square root of 1 minus x  squared dx, right?
that just calculates the area inside this  quarter circle, and what's that area?
well, the whole unit circle has area pi.
so that quarter circle has area pi over  this is a geometric calculation of an  integral.
we can also look at the accumulation  function.
well here's a zoomed in copy of the graph  of that semi circle and here's 0 and  here's t.  so this area in here is exactly what the  accumulation function calculates.
it's the integral from 0 to t.  of the square root of 1 minus x squared  right, that's this graph, d x.  now my claim is that, that accumulation  function can be written like this.
that, that integral is equal to t times  the square root of 1 minus t squared all  over 2 plus the arc sin of t over 2.  we can work this out in a couple  different ways.
one way just involves differenciating.
so i'm going to differentiate this side  and get, i hope, the square root of 1  minus t squared, alright, that will be a  proof that an anti-derivative of the  square root of 1 minus x squared is this.
so that's with t's replaced with x's.
okay so let's try it.
let's see if we can, if we can really  pull that off.
so so let me just write down what i'm  trying to show.
i'm trying to differentiate this whole  thing.
so t times the square root of 1 minus t  squared over 2, plus the arc sin of t  over 2.  and that's differentiating a sum.
so i just had to differentiate this and  add it to the derivative of this.
and this first term is a product.
it's the t times the square root of 1  minus t squared over 2.  so i'm going to differentiate that  product using the product rule.
so it's the derivative of t, which is  just 1 times the second thing.
or the square root of 1 minus t squared  over 2.  plus the first thing t times the  deriveter of the second thing alright d  dt the squared of 1 minus t squared over  2 alright so that's the deriveter of this  first term plus the deriveter of[unknown]  t over 2 well the deriveter of  art[unknown] is 1 over the square root of  1 minus t squared, but then it's over 2.  so i'll put a 2 there.
okay, so i'm making some progress.
i've still got to differentiate the  squared of 1 minus t squared over 2 so,  let's just, let's just keep going.
so this first term is looking really  great.
this is the square-root of of one minus  t-squared, over two.
and, of course, i'm trying to get the  square-root of one minus t-squared.
so that's, that's looking pretty good.
plus t times, now what's the derivative  of this square-root?
well, i'll put the over-two here.
so i just need to differentiate the  square-root of minus t-squared.
and that's one over.
2 times the square root of 1 minus t  squared.
and then it's times the derivative of the  inside function.
and the derivative of 1 minus t squared  is minus 2t.
all right, so that's the derivative of  the square root of 1 minus t squared over  the over 2 is there, and that's the  derivative of just the square root of 1  minus t squared.
and i'll just add the derivative arc sign  t, one over two the square root of one  minus t squared.
okay, now i can simplify this a bit.
right, what do i have here?
well, i've got a minus two here and a two  there.
so those will cancel and what i'm going  to be left with here is ,  the square root of 1 minus t squared over  minus t squared, over 2 times the square  root of 1 minus t squared.
that's this whole second term, plus 1  over 2 times the square root of 1 minus t  squared.
now i'm going to combine these last two  terms, all right?
this is equal to what?
well, i'll put 1 minus t squared over  this common denominator.
so i've got this first term, the square  root of 1 minus t squared over 2 plus 1  minus t squared over that common  denominator of 2 times the square root of  1 minus t squared.
now i've got something divided by the  square root of the same thing.
so i could replace this.
with, well, the first term, 1 minus t  squared over 2 plus, this is something  over the square root of the same thing,  so the square root of 1 minus t squared  over 2.  now i've got something over 2 plus  something over 2, that's just the square  root of 1 minus t squared, and indeed we  have made it to our goal.
i started by wanting to differentiate  this expression and i ended up with the  sqaure of 1 minus t squared.
the second method is a bit more  geometric.
so i want to find geometrically the area  in here.
and i can break that region up by drawing  this line, so that i've got this circular  sector and this triangle.
now what's the area of the triangle  piece?
well, the height of that triangle is the  square root of 1 minus t-squared, right.
the base is length t, and this hypotenuse  is length 1.  so by the pythagorean theorem the height  of that triangle is the square root of 1  minus t squared and that means the area  of this triangle is its base t times its  height the square root of 1 minus t  squared divided by 2.  so that's the area of this triangle,  what's the area of the circular sector?
well, i've got an angle here which is  theta and by a bit of geometry that angle  is the same as that angle up there.
this length here is t, right.
we're going to need that in a minute.
so if i've got a circular sector with a  radius 1 and a angle here, theta, that  area is theta over 2.  this length is t.  so that means that i know a formula for  theta in terms of t.  theta is arcsine t, right, because, you  know, really, sine theta is t.  and that means instead of writing theta  over two for that area, i could write the  area of that circular sector to be  arcsine t over two.
so the total area here is arc sin t over  2 plus t times the square root of 1 minus  t squared over 2.  alright?
and that's exactly what i'm claiming in  the accumulation function.
this term is calculating the area of that  triangle.
and this term is calculating the area of  that circular sector.
now what happens if we evaluate the  accumilation function at 1.  so what i would be calculating is the  interval from 0 to 1 of the square root  of 1 minus x squared dx.
and that's what i get when i just plug in  t equals 1 here.
so 1 times the square root of 1 minus 1  squared over 2, 0.  plus arc sign of 1 over 2 well that term  is 0 and arc sign of 1 is pie over 2, so  i've got pie over 2 over 2 that is just  pie over 4 which is you know really the  area of a quarter circle these pieces are  coming together we can compute the  accumulation function just by pure  geometry or some trigonometry.
we can verify that its derivative really  is the square root of 1 minus x squared.
and then we can recover the area of a  semi circle this way as well, right.
no mathematical fact is an island.
