[MUSIC] Welcome to the lesson on cloud
computing and cyber physical systems. In this video lecture, we will look into
the relationship between cloud computing and the future of cyber physical
systems or embedded systems in general. Let's talk about cloud computing. In the simplest form,
cloud computing is about utilizing computational power as a utility
like electricity or gas. Instead of building your own
in-house computational capabilities, you rent them out from people
who have already designed them. This model of renting out resources based
on one's needs has several benefits. First, flexibility. The resources you utilize like storage,
computing capacity or network can scale up or
scale down based on your needs. Second, low maintenance. As the servers are managed
by your provider, you don't have to worry about
maintenance or software updates. Third, paper use, you only pay for
the resources you use. Fourth, security, cloud services
can maintain better security and hire better professionals compared
to a small business or startup In the words of a researcher
in the field of security, cloud is using somebody else's computer. In another lesson, we talked about
different protocols like GSM, Bluetooth, and Zigby that enable us to connect
our cyber physical systems. We also pointed out the one's that support
GCPIP to enable IP based communication. When you take a small embedded device and
assign it an IP address, you can uniquely identify it,
remotely access and control it and
share its data across the internet. What you have done is that you have
built an Internet of Things device or IoT device. You had a device, a thing, and
you made it a part of the internet. Irrespective of all the hype and
well justified interest in the Internet of Things, at its very basic level,
it is a very large number of embedded systems talking to each
other via IP networks. If you look at it from this perspective,
to an embedded systems engineer, IoT is more of an evolution of the technologies
that were already available to him. The reason we are talking about
the Internet of Things is that it shares a lot of similarities
with cyber physical systems. IoT is about monitoring or sensing the
real world with interconnected sensors. Cyber physical systems are the same. Any platform that bills
itself as an IoT platform can also be cyber physical
systems platform. From now on, in this lesson,
we will use the term IoT instead of cyber physical
systems as most of the cloud platforms like to associate
themselves with the Internet of things. Cloud computing and
IoT compliment each other very well. In the vision of Internet of Things, you have hundreds of thousands
of sensors generating data. Cloud computing helps you store and
process that data. You can see an example of tracking
people's fitness on the screen. If you are an IoT device and
network provider, you can focus on your core competence,
building and connecting sensors. You don't have to worry about
building your own IT infrastructure. Another problem is making
sense of all that data. There are cloud computing tools
available that will help you analyze and generate actionable
intelligence from your data. If you are monitoring traffic flow or power consumption in
a large housing society, or monitoring the air quality of a large
city, you need a strong IT infrastructure. Cloud computing offers you that. This growing interest in
combining cloud computing and Internet of Things has created
on new field called cloud IoT. Cloud IoT is providing
on demand computational infrastructure designed specifically for
the Internet of Things. Cloud IoT providers can
offer different services. Here are some basic considerations
to look into when choosing one. Do they offer support for the communication hardware and
software you will be using? Do they support the communication
protocols you are using in your solution? Do they offer you remote
node management like controlling your device remotely, issuing
commands or upgrading its firmware? Do they offer any data analytics? If yes, is it according to your needs? What kind of pricing model do they have? Are they charging by the number
of nodes or sensors you have or by the number of resources you use? Here is a short list of different cloud
IOT platforms and service providers. In this lesson, we looked at
the merging of cloud computing and the Internet of Things phenomenon. The next video lecture, we will look at a phenomenon that
is opposite to cloud computing. [SOUND]