[MUSIC]
>> Here we are with the last video of the last module of our
introductory course on particle physics. And in this last video, we will 
go into some more depth on the preceding discussion of
dark energy and dark matter. To do that, we have invited ourselves 
to a colleague from the theoretical physics department 
of University of Geneva. Let me present to you Ruth Durrer,
professor of theoretical physics who is a specialist on cosmology, the physics subject which remains most concerned with these two phenomena,
thus far inaccessible to experimentation at 
existing accelerators. So, at the end of this video, 
you will understand a bit better how dark matter and dark energy act on 
the universe that surrounds us. So, Ruth, I think there is little doubt on
the existence of dark matter, is there? Or am I mistaken, are there
still people who believe that dark matter does not exist? >> Yes, there are such people. Dark matter, as you have already heard 
in the preceding videos, has been confirmed by only one
interaction, which is gravity, and by no other, so they ask 
the question: should our theory of gravitation – to discover
dark matter, one only needs Newtonian gravitation – should it be
modified at large distance scales. There are people who have tried that,
and who were able to explain, for example, the fact that the rotational curve of 
galaxies does not descend like one would expect, if
gravitation obeys Kepler’s law. But even if one can modify gravitation such that one obtains
flat rotational curves also, there is still a lot more
confirmation for the existence of dark matter. >> Like gravitational lenses…
>> Exactly. >> …the motion of galaxies, and their interactions, like the 
Bullet Cluster for example… >> Exactly. And if you want to explain all that by
modifying the theory of gravitation, you can for example do this
with what is called TeVeS, but it is a horribly complicated theory and
one makes hypotheses which are much more complex and non-minimal, 
than to just add a particle. So, I would say that 99% of the scientists are 
convinced that dark matter is what it takes and not a 
modified theory of gravity. >> And in that case, there should be
a particle which constitutes dark matter, and one should be able to see
its interactions, either among themselves, as we try with AMS, or with normal matter
as out colleagues try in Zurich, for example, 
in their underground experiments, or by the artificial creation of this matter,
at the LHC for example. So, up to now, we have not
succeeded to do so, but it is never too late to try. So, if such a particle existed, what would be the implication 
for the Standard Model of the existence of an additional particle,
which we need to explain this, don’t we? >> Of course, such a particle is beyond the 
Standard Model of particle physics but there are plenty of hypotheses 
on the existence of such a particle. For example, in supersymmetry. one expects that there be a
stable supersymmetric particle. Or one can add a heavy neutrino,
to explain, for example, the generation of quarks and
leptons in the universe and this could, at the same time, 
also play the role of dark matter. A low mass neutrino does not work,
because it has too large velocities to be confined in galaxies, etc. So, we need a particle
with a minimal mass of at least some kiloelectronvolts. Standard candidates rather have
some hundred GeV of mass. But what is the interaction of 
this particle with normal matter? Of course, we do not know. If it is comparable to weak interactions,
in the coming years one should discover it either at LHC,
or with direct or indirect interactions. But if the interaction
is much weaker, if we had, for example 
a gravitino, which interacts via the gravitational force, we will not discover it
by these experiments. >> But we are still in good hope
that during our own active lifetime we will know of what is consists. >> Yes, I do hope so. It is one of these problems, which are
with us since 70-80 years. >> Since Zwicky, yes. >> Yeah. 
>> So, on the contrary, I have much less hope as far as
dark energy is concerned, no? So, can you share with us your 
vision of dark matter. First of all, according to you, what is it? >> I don’t know. This is the honest answer, we must 
leave somethings to do for young people, to explain to us. I don’t know what dark energy is. So, I can tell you that current
data are in good agreement with the assumption, that dark energy is
just a cosmological constant. But I will talk a little about how one has discovered the existence 
of this dark energy. One has seen that the universe is 
currently in an accelerated expansion, and not as one had thought, that due to gravitation
the expansion would slow down more and more. In fact, one has found that,
since a while, this slowing down has reversed
and has become an acceleration. And this acceleration, one can explain it, if there is a component
practically with negative gravity. So, we need, for example, something which has a very strong pressure, a 
negative pressure. Negative energy density is not
possible according to the Friedmann equations which are a consequence of the 
Einstein equations… >> Well, we have scratched the surface
of these equations a little bit earlier in the course, so, if you are no more familiar with this, please watch again the previous video, which 
talks just about the Friedmann equation. So, if the famous lambda
is the only thing which exists, this would be a property of our universe, which was 
created together with our universe, wouldn’t it? So, by chance, well,
it has the value it has, and we must live with it, no? >> It is more complicated than that. The problem is that this lambda,
this cosmological constant, must have changed, for example, if the interactions of the universe
passed through a phase transition. >> Yes. Like inflation, to just name one. >> For example, during inflation. And during that transition,
the cosmological constant has changed its value, which was 10 to the power 120 greater that the value 
we measure today. So, this value requires an
enormous fine tuning. >> I.e. of the initial conditions
to get there. >> And most of all this
is not what we call a « natural » fine tuning in the sense that in 
field theory this constant is not 
protected from corrections. If one modifies the theory a litle bit,
this constant changes enormously, etc. So, from the point of view of
a quantum field theory, such a constant is very, very 
unnatural, unexpected, bizarre. >> So, all of this requires effectively that his field is a quantum field, no? Is it really necessary 
that this be so, or could it not simply be
a classical field, which does not have a quantum representation,
which does not exist in a theory at small scales,
does not exist or is not necessary? >> Well, the cosmological constant 
itself is not a field, but it is an effective constant, which comes from
the quantisation of all other fields. And that the electron is well
represented by a quantum field, or the quarks, I believe that you
have discussed that in your course. So you cannot say that at very small scales,
this is not the case. I would even say that usually
all fields, even effective ones, even non-fundamental ones, can be
described by quantum fields, that they exhibit a quantum nature
if one talks about very small excitations. >> Like phonons in a solid,
for example. >> Exactly, like phonons
in crystals. But here, we have two explanations, which are a little bit more satisfactory, but more
complicated and also not very attractive. One is, one adds a scalar field, which is not constant but nearly constant. And with that, if the field
is sufficiently constant, one can explain dark energy. But the difference to a cosmological
constant becomes more and more diffuse there. Another one is that one changes the
theory of gravitation at large scales. You see, one has tested Einstein’s
gravitation for distances beyond a tenth of a millimetre, a hundredth of a millimetre, 
up to the size of galaxies, and maybe at the distance scale of the universe
one must add modifications. This can be done, there are modifications,
for example concerning the graviton, which can have a very small mass. This mass must also 
be fine tuned. But at least the quantum corrections,
if one develops a quantum theory of gravitation, are small,
they are logarithmic corrections, which do not blow up everything, when one describes the facts by a quantum theory,
like the cosmological constant does. >> I believe that it is, however, correct to
say that this form of energy is not easily amenable to human experimentation, is it? This is a phenomenon, which really only exists 
at a cosmological scale, and which stays confined to this domain. >> If it is a cosmological constant, it is accessible only by
gravitational forces. All other forces are not 
sensitive to a constant difference in energy. But, if it is not a 
cosmological constant, but if it is a modification,
lets say, take this example, a modification of gravity,
one should be able to also see it on other scales,
with very high precision experiments, etc. Or, if, for example, the 
graviton had a mass, this would mean that the graviton 
has five helicities and not only two. Ans maybe with certain experiments,
still gravitational ones, one would be able to excite these other 
helicities of the graviton. So, there would be this other
possibility of see that. >> Experimental possibility. >> Yes. But I would say also, however, that a cosmological experiment is
a human experiment. So, this is not to scale,
but the scale tested at LHC is as far from the
human scale as the cosmological scale. >> There, I admit, that is true. >> You agree, Martin. >> OK. So, thank you very much for this interview. I think that it is very important also to indicate like an open window
towards the future of our profession. Because the course does not stop here. It invites you to stay interested
in the forthcoming experimental as well as 
theoretical progress in the field. So, I invite you to have eyes and ears
open, for what will happen, and for what
will probably again revolutionise our field in the coming decades. Thank you for your attention. [MUSIC]