[MUSIC] During the second module, we deal with
nuclear physics and its applications. And in this fifth video,
we go into more details on the two other types of radioactivity,
that is to say beta and gamma decays. The goals for you are to be able to
characterize beta decays of nuclei and their properties. To relate these properties to those
of the underlying weak interactions, and to be able to characterize
gamma decays of excited nuclei. A neutron-rich nucleus, i.e. one that has
N/Z larger than what stability requires can transform into a more
stable nucleus by emitting an electron and transforming one of
its neutrons into a proton in what is called a ß- decay. To conserve lepton number, this emission must be accompanied by
the emission of an anti-neutrino. In the contrary case, proton-rich nuclei,
which have too many protons to be stable, can reach stability by ß+ decay,
accompanied by neutrino emission. Since the proton is
lighter than the neutron, this latter process can only happen for a bound proton where the Q value is turned
positive by a gain in binding energy. A nucleus with a surplus
of protons can also capture an electron from the internal
K-shell of the atomic cloud. The other electrons of the atom will
then cascade down to fill the gap. Since a lepton disappears in the capture a neutrino must be emitted
to conserve lepton number. All these decays are isobar,
they have ∆A = 0 and ∆Z = ±1. Since beta decays are
three body processes, the spectrum of the emitted electron
or positron is a continuous one. It has the shape which is
sketched in this graph. The neutrino interacts only
very weakly with matter. It will normally escape undetected. This is also the reason why the neutrino
has taken so long to be discovered. Neutrinos and anti-neutrinos are fermions
with zero electric charge and a very small mass. The maximum electron energy is obtained
when the neutrino is produced almost at rest. Its maximum value then approaches the Q
value, like it would in a two body decay. When one measures this energy, one can establish an upper limit on
the neutrino mass by energy conservation. The video 2.5a introduces
the exponential decay law, which describes the time evolution
of this and other decay processes. At the quark level, beta decay proceeds
via the exchange of a W boson, which is the gauge boson mediating the weak
force like it is shown in this Feynman graph. The large mass of this
boson is responsible for the short range of the weak force and
its weakness at low energies. Neutrinos are very peculiar particles.
Their generations can mix with each other. Their mass is the lightest
among all particles and probably in the order of
milli electron volt. It is not even clear if neutrinos and anti-neutrinos are really
different particles. Their charge is the same, and
they have no magnetic dipole moment, contrary to other neutral particles,
like the neutron for example. The definitive answer will come
from experiments searching for what is called double beta decay. They deal with nuclei
where two beta decays happen simultaneously to
reach the value of stability. If neutrino and
antineutrino are really the same particle, one of them can then arrange
the lepton number of the other one, such that there are no neutrinos
emitted in the process at all. If they are not identical, two neutrinos must always be emitted
in the process of double beta decay. For recent review of
the experimental situation, please see the article by Rodejohann
cited on the bottom of this slide. Weak interactions have
two more peculiarities. The first one is that only the left-handed 
part of the quark and lepton fields participate
in the interaction. What we mean by that is that only matter
particles will spin anti-parallel to the direction of motion,
interact via the weak force. The opposite is true for
matter anti-particles. Only right-handed anti-particles which
have the spin parallel to the direction of motion can interact. Neutrinos and down type quarks, and
that is the second peculiarity, which participate in weakened directions,
are mixtures of the corresponding real particles. One denotes the neutrino
mixtures of nu_e, nu_µ, and nu_tau according to their generation. They are mixtures of the real particles nu_L, nu_M and nu_H which we have
introduced in the first module. The quark mixtures are denoted by d’,
s’ and b’ for the three generations, mixtures of
the real particles d, s, and b. We will come back to these astonishing
properties in module 6 when we discuss weak interactions
in more detail. What I mean by participating in weak
interactions is that only the left handed mixtures are able to emit or
absorb weak bosons. What I mean by real particles are quantum
eigenstates of the mass operator. These states propagate
with a specific velocity when their energy-momentum is known. This is not the case for nu_e or
for the d’ for example. It is the nu_L and the d quark which have
a mass which is a constant of motion. Let us now come to the last type of
radioactivity, the gamma decays. They often follow another previous
decay which leaves the daughter nucleus in an excited state. It can then fall back into its ground
state by emitting a photon of a quantized energy. The energy of the photon will
correspond to the energy difference between the excited and the ground state. The study of emission and
absorption of nuclear gamma rays thus constitutes nuclear spectroscopy in
an analogy to atomic spectroscopy. With one remarkable difference, one cannot neglect the recoil of
the daughter nucleus in gamma decays. The more massive the system, the less
important will be the recoil energy. One can just freeze the nucleus into a
crystal structure which has a much larger mass and allows the recoil to
be reduce to almost nothing. This is called the Mössbauer effect,
it allows to reduce the line width of a gamma decays to of the order of 10^-7 eV, which in turn allows to measure
the relative line separation to an accuracy to the order
of 10^-12. One can thus study nuclear energy
levels with great precision. This can also be used to measure
the composition of materials. We show here an example of the gamma
spectrum of natural uranium mineral. It allows to identify and
quantify the presence of radionuclides like Ra-226, Pb-214. and Bi-214 coming from
the decay change of U-238, which itself is not a gamma emitter. In the next video, we are invited to
visit the laboratory of the nuclear physics course at University of
Geneva to see experiments on radioactivity. [MUSIC]