[MUSIC] In this module,
we will discuss searches for new phenomenon beyond the known ones
described by the standard model. In this video, we will talk about bump hunting. After watching this video, you will
know how we look for new resonances in hadron collider data. How such signal choice led in
the past to important discoveries. And the impact of statistics for searches. We use the data we collect in hadron
colliders for measurements of processes predicted by the standard model and
for searches for new physics. We typically measure the cross-section
of a process, the mass of a particle, or other properties. The searches are typically split
in bump searches or tail searches. Measurements always precede searches. It is the confidence that we
know well the standard model and what it predicts that
enables us to look beyond. One of the things we measure in our data
is the rate of production of a specific process which allows us to
determine its cross section. It is given by the formula you have
already seen in previous videos. The cross section of the process, for
example production of a Z boson, times the branching ratio for a specific decay,
for example to a di-muon pair, is equal to the number of events corresponding
to the exact same process divided by three numbers that remove biases related
to the way the measurement is performed. The acceptance, indicating the fraction
of signal events passing selection requirements we're applying to the data. The reconstruction efficiency of the
relevant objects, muons in our example, and the integrated luminosity indicating the
amount of incoming particles we have used. In the numerator we have to subtract
from the total number of events the expected number of background events. These are the events producing the same
signature, a di-muon pair in our example, but resulting from other processes,
different to our process of interest. The Z boson was discovered in
proton-antiproton collisions at CERN in 1994 as a small bump around its mass
value as shown in the left plot. What constituted a major discovery back
at the time, is a well established process now, for which we can make precise
measurements and measure properties, such as the cross-section. The plot on the right
shows how a mass peak for Z bosons decaying to two muons looks
like in early ATLAS data back in 2010. Despite the small amount of
data available at that time, it is remarkable how this compares to the
same topology when the Z was discovered. This established the lepton pair signature as one with which many particles
have been discovered over time. It is one of the key signatures we use in
hadron colliders to search for new peaks. Primarily, in the high mass region now. This is how the muon pair mass
spectrum looks like in ATLAS. starting from just below
the Z mass peak and extending up to the highest
values we have data for. The blue area indicates
the contribution to this distribution from a Z boson decaying to two muons. This is the dominant process
in the whole spectrum, and especially in the peak at the Z mass. Other colored areas indicate other
standard model contributions to the spectrum. The black points correspond to data. Expected contributions from
the standard model have been scaled by the same integrated luminosity
as for the data we have used. One can see from this plot, that the data
match very well the distribution expected from the standard model alone. Presence of a heavy Z’ boson would manifest itself
as a bump in the tail of the distribution, shown here with simulated rates for
three different possible masses. In the absence of any bump,
limits are set on the masses and production cross sections of
the heavy Z bosons. To increase the number
of events in the tails, we try to use as many
final states as possible. A natural one in this case,
is the electron final state. Here is the invariant spectrum of
electron-positron pairs from ATLAS. Despite some differences,
the picture is very similar. Everything we measure
carries uncertainties. These originate from both systematic
effects associated with our methods and the limited available statistics. Searches are also affected
by uncertainties, though statistical uncertainties
are more important in this case. Our searches typically
improve when using more data. This is demonstrated in this slide,
where compare the lepton pair spectra with luminosities differing by
a factor of roughly 100. The heavy Z boson search has not
given any hints for new physics yet at hadron colliders. Other bump searches have been
more successful in the past. A very well known one is the Higgs search, which was effectively a bump search. ATLAS and CMS scientists looked for a bump in the photon pair
innvariant mass spectrum. We have already seen this
example in video 6.12. It is interesting to see in
this demonstration how more and more statistics make a difference
in the picture of the spectrum, and lead to a discovery. Beyond the Higgs mass, the photon pair mass
spectrum is continuously scanned for new bumps that could indicate
the presence of new phenomena. A potential bump was hinted in the 2015
data at the mass of about 750 GeV. The significance of the excess was low, so the search was not
conclusive at that point. The spectrum was scanned again when
more date became available in 2016. The excess had not increased
proportionally to the increasing luminosity. It was thus concluded that the bump had
been due to a statistical fluctuation. You see that a firm
discovery is difficult to make, and strict requirements on
the significance of a convincing signal must be respected before concluding. This concludes this video. In the next video, we will discuss
another type of searches, tail searches. [MUSIC]