This week's additional programming 
lecture is on arrays. So last week we talked about variables. 
And I talked about how a variable is a place in memory or a box in memory where 
you can put some data. and that's obviously very useful for 
storing most types of data, and being able to access it via name. 
But it's really suitable only for one particular item of data, a single number, 
a single image. Now part of the benefit of using a 
computer, is that you can compute lots and lots of data. 
and we'll see in this week's lecture, how we can use lots and lots of images to 
create an animation. But to do that you need, a way of storing 
all of those images in a convenient way, and not having a hundred variables, if 
you have a hundred images in one dimension. 
And, that is where you have we use something called an array. 
Now an array variable is created very much like any other variable, except you 
have these two little square brackets. makes it look a little like a box, but 
I'll come to exactly what those mean in a minute. 
But we just put between the type of the variable, int, and the variable name plus 
X. We put these square brackets in that, it 
tells us that it's an array variable, which is to, stor, study, storing one 
int, can store many integers. And if we see down here at the bottom in 
memory, rather than a single box, it's a lot of boxes, each with their own value 
of memory and number. And you can access with a single name, 
posX with this, all of those boxes together. 
It's a single variable, we can have lots of different bits of data. 
So how do you access an individual item of data? 
You access it with a number, and you use these square brackets, this is where the 
square brackets come in. There the way you get access to a 
particular item of the array, and inside the square brackets, you put a number. 
So each of those boxes has a number, and this is the way you get box number three, 
and you would get an item out that. one thing to note, very importantly, is 
that it starts at 0, so the first element in an array is element 0. 
you would naturally think it's element 1. It is not, it's 0. 
And that will influence how you do everything right. 
It's very important to be clear on that. And that means if you've got a number 
element with 10 elements in and an array with 10 elements in, the first element is 
on 0, and the last one is over 9, it is not over 10, because it starts with 0. 
It can be a little bit confusing. Unfortunate, that's just the way it 
works, and you will get used to it very quickly. 
So this is how you set an element to the array, just like you would set a variable 
to be, using the equals command. You can set element 3 here, again using 
equals, but we have to use the square brackets to get hold of that value. 
It's just like any ordin, ordinary variable. 
This is how you create an array, one way of creating an array. 
in the example we'll actually use a function to create an array, but we 
declare a new variable. there many type of create box in memory, 
to do this you say the type It's a, called a floating point. 
When we have the square brackets, those square brackets tell us it's not just one 
floating value, it's an array. Give it a name, like any other variable. 
And then you create an array. And this is, these curly brackets and a 
list of numbers. That gives you an array. 
But we'll see in the actual example, we'll do a different, use a different 
mechanism, and next week we'll use yet another mechanism. 
but, but here is an example of creating a very simple array, and then you can use 
element zero. And you can use this syntax with the 
square brackets, the name of the array, square brackets and number, to get any 
element. And once you've got that element, you can 
use it in any way you'd use any other variable, by any way you'd use a number. 
So it can just print it out, or you can use it as inputs to do any command you 
like. So you could do translate vals at zero, 
rotate, wrecked, any of these commands that you're familiar with. 
So we can use rectval zero, we could use fill vals zero, any of the commands 
you're used to. Wherever you would use a normal variable, 
you could use an array variable, plus squared brackets and a number. 
And that would just give you a number value, like any other value. 
Very simple, and we'll in the main example how you can use them with images, 
to create an animation.