[MUSIC] Hello, welcome to another lesson
on connectivity protocols. In an earlier video lecture, we talked about the different
properties of connectivity protocols. In this lesson, we will use
those properties to describe and differentiate some of the very common and
important connectivity protocols. The first, and the only wired protocol
we will discuss here, is ethernet. The IEEE 802.3 working group defines
the specification for ethernet. 100 megabyte and gigabyte ethernet can be commonly found in different
embedded development boards. Specifications for data rates up
to 100Gbps over coaxial cable and 400Gbps over fiber optic
cable have been proposed. Ethernet was designed in a time when power
consumption was not a consideration. And therefore,
the modules consume a lot of power compared to the other
standards discussed here. It's cheap enough and is even available as part of low cost embedded
development boards. Defined under the 802.11 umbrella of IEEE, Wi-Fi offers a wireless local
area network specification that has a standard range of about
100 meters and data rate of 1Gbps. The data rate varies from
50Mbps to greater than 1Gbps, depending on the spectrum and
technology used. Power consumption varies
based on the module and manufacturer, but
it's not a power friendly standard. The number of devices connected to
a single gateway depends on the available bandwidth, which will be divided
between the connected clients and the processing power and
memory of the system. In simple home devices,
there can be up to 253 connections. WI-FI mainly operates in
the 2.4 gigahertz ISM band, although 5 gigahertz and newer 60 gigahertz standards
have been proposed. A newer standard, 802.11 Has been proposed in the 900 megahertz band. It will offer better range and
power consumption. With the downside of lower bandwidth,
this standard is targeted for the Internet of Things. Bluetooth is a standard managed by
the Bluetooth Special Interest Group. It's a short-range, low bandwidth
personal area network protocol. It operates in the unlicensed
2.4 gigahertz ISM band and uses frequency hopping spread spectrum. Older Bluetooth standards offered
up to 3Mbits/s data rates, while newer Bluetooth 4.0
offers up to 34Mbits/s. Bluetooth Smart, or Bluetooth Low Energy, or BLE is designed for
very low power consumption. Despite the similar name
to the classic Bluetooth, it's a completely different
standard all together. Unlike the classic Bluetooth,
BLE has the data rate of just 1Mbits/s. It's designed for
sending periodic chunks of data, and therefore it is not suitable for
voice calls or music streaming. BLE offers up to 128 bit AES
encryption for messages. Here AES stands for
the Advance Encryption Standard. With an approximate transmission
power of 15 milliwatts, and 3 milliseconds per transaction,
a BLE device can perform more than 20 million transactions
within a small coin cell battery. Moreover, unlike in the classic Bluetooth,
there is no theoretical limits on how many nodes can
connect to one access point. Mesh networking is not supported, but is being considered to be
made part of the standard. ZigBee is a standard for
low power mesh networking nodes. Although the range is up to a 100 meters, due to the mesh nature, it can offer
connectivity over longer distances. On the physical or link layer,
it uses the 802.15.4 standard defined by IEEE, and
unlike other connectivity protocols, it also defines the network and
application layer protocol. All of this is part of
the ZigBee protocol stack. The simple way to understand this is that
in the ZigBee standard the connectivity or radio part is handled via
IEEE 802.15.4 specifications, but the remaining logical
parts like routing, security, data payload formats and profiling
are done by the ZigBee alliance itself. For this reason, ZigBee is not
only a connectivity protocol, but also a communication protocol. We will learn more about
communication protocols later. RFID stands for
radio frequency identification. You can think of it as an advanced
replacement for bar codes. Instead of a barcode on a product,
there's a tag. And instead of light as in
the case of a barcode reader, you use radio waves to
interact with the tag. This means that you can
have a longer range, and the tag doesn't have to
be visible to be read. It can be implanted anywhere
in the product, and as long as it's in the range of
the reader, it can be tracked and read. At a minimum, tags have a chip,
some kilobytes of memory, and antennae. Memories stores
the information on the tag. The chip processes this data and
performs the transformation functions. And the antenna is use to transmit and
receive the RF signals. Tags can be passive or active. Passive tags take their power from the RF
signals transmitted by the reader. Active tags have a battery
that powers them. That's why active tags have a higher cost,
but a longer range. A typical range for RFID usage is 1 meter. Cellular technologies is
a very broad term and encapsulates a wide range of technologies. In simple terms, cellular technologies
are those where there are multiple small interconnected transmitters or
cells instead of one main transmitter. Another feature is frequency reuse, where one frequency is used by multiple
cells to increase range and capacity. But these cells, have to be geography
far apart from each other, so that there is minimal to no interference. The most common cellular
technology is GSM. Most of the world's mobile
network operators use GSM. GSM also has multiple
standards classified as first, second, third generation and so on. The data rates and number of users per
cell improves with each generation. The current deployed generation is fourth,
or 4G, while 5G is in development. For every generation,
you can have multiple competing standards. For example, for 4G, we have two
main competitors, WiMax and LTE. A competing standard to GSM is CDMA. It's not used widely, and
it's mostly limited to United States. In any case,
your choice of technology can be based on the range you need,
CDMA offers a better range, data rate, LTE offers a better data rate,
local availability, whichever network is deployed
in your area or cost. 6LoWPAN stands for IPv6 over low power
wireless personal area networks. As the name suggests,
it is a standard that enables the use of IPv6 on low power edge devices. By natively communicating using
Internet Protocol, 6LoWPAN devices and networks don't require any special
gateways to connect to other IP networks, such as the Internet. Therefore, 6LoWPAN offers
interoperability and simplicity in design compared to ZigBee or
Bluetooth. Essentially, this standard
enables IPv6 packets to be transmitted over IEEE 802.15.4, which is a standard for low data rate
wireless personal area networks. This makes 6LoWPAN ideal for
cyber physical systems, where IP connectivity and
low power consumption are essential. In this lesson, we discuss the basics
of some of the important M to M connectivity protocols or protocols
that mainly reside on the link layer. In later videos, we will look into communication protocols
that reside on the application layer. [SOUND]