[MUSIC] In this first module, we are introducing
the objects studied in particle physics, namely matter, forces and space-time. In this video, we will take
a quick tour of elementary forces, and their action at the subatomic level. After watching this video, you should
be able to name these forces and their associated charges, to know
the particles which transmit these forces, and know the difference between real and
virtual particles. Here is a table comparing
elementary interactions. Note the vast differences between
their respective strengths and ranges. The strong force acts between quarks and
particles containing quarks. It has a large strength but
a very short range. It is transmitted by gluons. The electromagnetic force concerns all
particles carrying an electric charge, and it has a modest strength but an infinite
range, and it is transmitted by photons. The weak force concerns
all matter particles. It has a low strength
at long distances but becomes comparable to the electromagnetic
force at short distances. It is transmitted by the W and Z bosons. The gravitational force is weaker than
these three but acts on all particles. Because of the large mass
of astronomic objects, the gravitational force dominates
the evolution of the Universe at cosmological scales, but is however,
negligible at the subatomic scales. We don't know how this force
acts at these scales and we don't know if it is quantized
as the other three forces. Note also that the strength of
the forces depends on distance or equivalently on momentum transfer. We will discuss this fact for each
forces separately because the distance laws for
these forces are quite different. So forces are transmitted by
exchange of bosons of spin 1. The photon for electromagnetic 
interactions, the W± and the Z bosons for the weak forces and
gluons for the strong force. These bosons are collectively
called gauge bosons. Particles can emit or absorb such a boson
if they carry the required charge. To emit a photon,
an electric charge is required. But the concept of charge is not
limited to electric charge. A particle must have a non-zero weak
isospin to emit a W or a Z boson. And a color charge
to emit a gluon. The Higgs boson is the only entry
in this table, which has a spin 0. Its role is to keep particles from
moving at the speed of light, and this applies to all particles,
even to the Higgs boson itself. The only exceptions are the photons,
which always move at the speed of light, and which are however
confined to bound states between quarks as we will
discuss in module 5. So, how does the transmission of forces
via the exchange of particles work? To understand this, we need to recall how forces act in
classical and quantum physics. How does classical physics deal
with the action of forces? Particles are described as mass points. Their position x and
momentum p can be known with certainty. Their motion is a smooth curve,
in space a function of time, which we call a trajectory. It is determined by Newton's law,
once we know the vector sum of all forces acting, and the initial
conditions on the position and velocity. The action of forces is continuous,
thus the trajectory is a smooth curve. The number of particles is conserved, mass points cannot disappear or appear. Field and potential are notions which are subordinate to
the central ones of force and energy. We give here the example for
the electric force and energy which are related to the potential
as shown in the last equation. This description is not wrong. After all,
it allows you to drive your car. It's just that its validity is limited
to non-relativistic velocities and distances, much larger
than the size of an atom. To talk about subatomic
systems at high energies, we need to go beyond classical physics. Quantum mechanics radically
changes the approach. Particles are fields described by
a probability amplitude psi, which is a function of the position x and the time
t, which is also called a wave function. The square of this amplitude rho,
which must be always positive definite gives the probability density to find the
particle at the time t in the position x. This density is a probability
per unit volume. The trajectory does not
exist at small scales. Multiple measurements of the position of
a particle do not form a smooth curve. Probability amplitude and
probability itself evolve starting from initial state,
described it by the Schrödinger equation. Particles interact with the potential,
the action the potential is continuous. However, the origin of
the potential remains unexplained. Even though the action the potential
is continuous it can be implemented as a sequence of point-like
interactions in a pertubative approach. The number of particles is conserved,
since probability amplitudes follow a continuity equation as shown 
at the bottom of the page. This law relates the local probability
density rho to the flux density j. If the probability density
diminishes at a certain place, there must be a divergent
flux at the same place. So the flux j is thus a 
flux of probability density. The validity of Quantum Mechanics is
limited to non relatively velocity, since the Schrödinger equation
is not covariant, its forms depends on the reference frame. To overcome this limitation,
we have to use relativistic field theory. Here, we are going just to introduce
its language, its concepts and its results, but
we will not use it in a formal way. The evolution of particles is described
by a relativistic equation of motion, the Klein-Gordon equation, which is covariant because it contains
only scalars under Lorentz transformations. The number of particles is
no longer conserved about the electromagnetic current density is. This current is analogous to
the probability current, but is proportional to the charge
e of the particle. This conservation means that it
is the electrical charge, which is locally conserved,
and not the number of particles. This allows to describe the creation
of charged particles in pairs of particle-antiparticle. The potential no longer comes out of nowhere, but is generated
by a second current density j_2 according to Maxwell's laws. The four-potential A^µ is generated
by the current density j^µ by means of the propagator
1/q^2. This quantity describes
the probability amplitude for the exchange of a photon of invariant
mass q between the two currents. Those who follow carefully may have
noticed that there are at least three unfamiliar notions, in the formulae 
that come with relativistic field theory. The dimensions of the quantities
do not seem to fit. In the first equation, there is a relation between a quantity
which is an energy, a momentum and another quantity which is a mass,
which have all different units in the international system
which we are familiar with. Even worse in the second equation,
since psi has no dimension, the first time has dimension
1/s^2, the second 1/m^2,
and the third kg^2. The solution to this apparent
inconsistency is the use of natural units. Secondly, what does the notation j^µ and
p^µ mean? This is the notation used for four-vectors, with implicit summation over Greek
indices in scalar products. Finally, the last equation
requires the the photon has non-zero mass. The real photon of course has zero mass. After all, it moves at the speed of light. The solution is the notion
of your virtual particles, which is central to the action
of forces in field theory. Virtual particles have all the same
properties as the real ones, except that they can
have a different mass, which can even be negative or
imaginary. We will introduce these three notions in
the videos 1.2a, b, and c, one by one. In the next video,
we will explain how the probability for a reaction between particles to happen
is expressed by the cross section. [MUSIC]