[MUSIC] In this short video,
we will remind you of special relativity and the notation of four-vectors which are essential tools
to work with in high energy physics. This course will treat phenomena at high energy, so at a velocity which requires
a relativistic treatment. The fundamental principles of
special relativity which have been based on experimental findings are
that the speed of light c is constant at the same value in every inertial frame. It means that the Galilean way of adding
velocity is not valid at high speeds. This way, the speed of light is
a maximum velocity which cannot be exceeded in any frame. Motion is described in a 
four-dimensional space, called space-time. An event in space-time is localized
by the Carthesian coordinates ct, where t is the time, and
x, where x is the position. And this is described by a four-vector x_µ. The metric of space time is
defined by the speed of light c, invariant constant in
every inertial frame. So suppose that a light
ray connects two events. (ct_1,x_1) and (ct_2,x2). The distance between these two points
in space is always proportional to the propagation time of the light. Since the proportionality constant,
the speed of light, is the same in every inertial frame, it follows that the norm
s of a four-vector is also constant. Lorentz transformations
describe the rotations and translations in space-time which
are compatible with these principles. Let us specify Lorentz
transformation by a simple example. Let S and S’ be two reference frames. The first one is at rest
in the laboratory. The second one moves relative to
the first one at a constant velocity v in the direction of the x axis,
which are parallel for the two frames. Which are the coordinates of
one point in the moving system, so t’ and x’, expressed in the coordinates of
the laboratory frame, t and x? The answer is given by the Lorentz
transformation which relates t’ and x’ to t and x, by the relative velocity, beta, which
is the ratio between the velocity v and the speed of light c, and
the relativistic factor gamma. The transformation corresponds to a rotation
in space-time which leaves the norm of four-vectors like x_µ invariant. The transformation involves only
the time coordinate t and the spatial coordinate x along the 
direction of motion. The coordinates orthogonal to
the motion, y and z, are left untouched. In the non-relativistic
limit that is beta << 1 and gamma, which approaches 1, the Lorentz transformation
reproduces the Galilean transformation where t’
is equal simply to t, and x’ is simply equal
to x - vt. Four-vector notation unites
time and space coordinates in a single vector. Four-vectors transforming like the
four-vector x^µ of space-time under Lorentz transformations
are called the contravariant. An important example is the contravariant
energy-momentum vector p^µ. The norm of a four-vector is
defined via the scalar product between the contravariant four-vector and
its covariant form. The two are related by the metric
tensor g_µnu, as shown here. All scalar products between four-vectors are
invariant under Lorentz transformations. More generally, the scalar product is
thus defined as the product between a covariant and
a contravariant four-vector. When the same Greek index shows up
in the two, implicit summation over this index, which runs from zero to three, is assumed. The first example here repeats the norm
squared of the space-time four-vector. The second example shows the norm of the
energy-momentum four-vector, which is the square of the invariant mass. The third example Is a scalar product between the 
space-time and the energy-momentum four-vectors, which shows up in
the wave function of particles. The scalar products between
four-vectors are all indeed scalars under Lorentz transformation so
are invariant, when one changes from one
inertial frame to another. The notation simplifies if we
adopt the system of natural units, since the ubiquitous
speed of light c disappears. Two other important examples of
four-vectors are the four-vector of electromagnetic current density, j^µ, which has the charge density 
rho as the time-like component, and the vector current density
j as the space-like component. The four-vector of
the electromagnetic potential A^µ, which has the electric potential V
as a time-like component and the magnetic vector-potential
A as the space-like component. As an example, we calculate here the total
available energy in the collision of a 200 GeV electron with a proton
at rest in the laboratory frame. And we confront the results with
a collision in the center of mass frame, where a 200 GeV electron collides
with a 200 GeV proton. >> As an example we calculate
the kinematics of a two body process in the laboratory and
the center of mass frame. In the laboratory frame a particle of mass
m impacts on a particle of mass M at rest. We calculate the total energy-
momentum vector in this frame as well as the square of its length, s. When one neglects all masses in the system
one obtains that the maximum invariant mass which can be produced is
equal to square root of 2EM. In our numerical example
this corresponds to 14GeV. In the center of mass frame on the
contrary the two particles impact on each other with equal and opposite momenta. The same calculation leads us to
an invariant mass which can be produced, which is two times the energy of either
particle or 200 GeV in our example. [MUSIC]