In this module you will be introduced
to the concept of data organization, or housekeeping, and
good file management practices. By the end of the module,
you'll understand why this is important. And the benefits of file versioning,
naming and renaming conventions. Last but not least, you'll be able to
apply the concepts that you learn in this module to help you manage
your data more effectively. So, let's go ahead and get started. First, let's take a look at why
data organization is so important. At the start of your research project it's
really easy to believe that you'll always remember how you're going to name your
files and where you've stored them. But once your research gets underway, you'll very quickly accumulate
a large volume of data. You'll have multiple files in different
formats and lots of different versions. And it's not only the data files either. You're likely to have websites maybe
blogs, articles and citations, methodologies, notes and spreadsheets
all relating to your research. So if you're trying to find
a particular data file that you need, especially if it's been named
inaccurately or inconsistently, it can be really frustrating, and
a significant waste of research time. Good file management practices are
required to help you identify, locate, and use your data effectively. And file naming conventions
are really important if you're wanting to share your data
with collaborators in a group space. You want to make sure you're all
applying the same conventions and using those consistently. So, what exactly are the best
practices in organizing your data? Firstly, research data files and
folders need to be labeled and organized in a systematic way, so they're
both identifiable and accessible for current and future users. The benefits of consistent data
filing labeling are numerous. Let's take a look at some of these. Data files are distinguishable from each
other within their containing folder. They're easier to locate and browse, and they can be retrieved not only by
the creator, but by other users as well. They can be sorted in a logical sequence
and are not accidentally overwritten or deleted. Last, but not least, good data file
naming prevents confusion when multiple people are working on shared files.