[music] during this second module, we deal with nuclear physics and its application.
we'll now discuss radioactivity.
in this fourth video, we'll talk about nuclear decay in general, and the alpha decay in particular.
after watching this video, you will be able to describe the valley of stability and its surroundings.
to know how to locate and characterize the nuclei with respect to this valley, and characterize alpha decays and their properties.
an unstable nucleus can transform itself in a more stable one through radioactive decay.
we distinguish three types, historically labelled as alpha, beta, and gamma decays.
alpha decay is the spontaneous fission of a heavy nucleus into a less heavy one and the nucleus of he-4, also called alpha particle.
the beta decays are transformation between a nuclear neutron into a proton, or vice versa, by respectively emitting an electron and its antineutrino or a positron and its neutrino.
this way, both baryon number and lepton number are conserved.
this decay is often leave the daughter the nucleus in an excited state, and a gamma decays allows it to return it to its ground state by emitting one or more photons.
decays are a spontaneous processes.
the happen if they tighten the binding of a nucleus.
thus very heavy nuclei can reduce their mass and increase their binding energy by emitting a tightly-bound he-4 nucleus.
nuclei which are rich in neutrons can gain a more symmetric state by transforming one of them into a proton via a 찾혺- decay.
nuclei, which are rich in protons, can correct this asymmetry by a 찾혺+ decay.
and excited daughter nuclei can reach their ground state by meeting one or more photons.
all these reactions take the nucleus closer to the valley of stability.
this table shows the distribution of nuclei with the stable isotopes over the periodic system.
about 60 radioactive nuclei are naturally present on earth, compared to about 1,000 radioactive isotopes so far produced in the laboratory.
when our planet was formed, we can assume that all these nuclei were roughly equally abundant.
the absences of certain radioactive nuclei today can give us an idea of the age of the solar system.
this estimate give us an age of roughly 10 billion years for the sun.
all nuclei with a shorter lifetime have completely disappeared.
the naturally present radioactive nuclei have a nuclear charge, z, between 81 and 92. they are characterized by an excess of neutrons.
since they are heavy, they first undergo an alpha decay, leading to an even larger relative excess of neutrons.
this then can be fixed by subsequent beta decay.
the grand daughters are often themselves unstable and undergo alpha decay and so on.
this results in a chain of alpha and beta decays which will continue until the valley of stability in the n-z plane is reached.
all of this results in four series of alpha emitters where the daughters progressively differ by a multiple of four nucleons.
we have the thorium series with a mass number which is 4n, the neptunian series with mass number a equal to 4n + 1, the uranium-radium series with a equal to 4n + 2, and the uranium-actinium series with a equal to 4n + 3. one of the important applications of radioactivity is the dating of organic materials, which can work up to several thousand years.
we will see this in more detail when we speak about radioisotope dating in video 2.7. let us now discuss the physics of alpha decay in more detail.
a parent nucleus, p, decays into a daughter nucleus d via emission of a he-4 nucleus.
this corresponds to a spontaneous fission into daughter nuclei of vary asymmetric mass, since the nucleus d is much heavier than the he-4.
for more details on other fission processes, we refer you to the video 2.8. if we consider the parent nucleus to be at rest, energy conservation gives us a relation between the masses and energies.
since the number of electrons is unchanged in the reaction, you can directly use atomic mass for this calculation.
t_alpha and t_d are the kinetic energies of the alpha particle and the daughter nucleus.
the gain in binding energy that drives the decay is called the q value.
and it is converted into the kinetic energy of the decay products.
an example of the calculation of t_alpha and t_d is given in video 2.4a.
because of the asymmetry in the masses the alpha particle takes most of the kinetic energy.
the spectra of alpha particles coming from the decay of the same isotope can reveal intermediate metastable states.
one the observes alpha particles with slightly different but, of course, quantized energies.
one also observes gamma ray emission which comes from the decay cascade towards the ground state.
the parent nucleus can of course also directly decay to the ground state without passing by intermediate states.
this direct decay results in the most energetic alpha particle.
an example is shown here for the decay chain of am-241, which is a radioactive source often used in the laboratory.
the kinetic energy of an alpha particle from nuclear decay is typically of the order of 5 mev.
when such a low energy particle approaches a heavy nucleus from outside, it cannot penetrate the coulomb barrier.
for a nucleus of mass number about 200, it has a typical height of 20 to 25 mev.
so why does the process work in the opposite direction?
how can an alpha particle traverse the coulomb barrier from the inside?
the answer is given by the quantum process of tunneling.
the probability that an alpha particle traverses the coulomb barrier is of the order of 10^-40.
but this is the probability of traversing on a single trial.
this is why a low energy alpha particle from the outside cannot penetrate the barrier.
the velocity of an alpha particle, bound to a nucleus with kinetic energy of about 44 mev, is not relativistic but still impressive.
it has a velocity of about 0.15 speed of light.
confined to a region with a radius of about 10^-12 centimeters, the particle bounces off the barrier with a frequency of about 4.5 10^21 times per second.
the probability of penetration per second is thus 0.5 10^-18 per second.
this quantity is called the decay constant lambda, which is the inverse of the lifetime tau.
for a typical nucleus we find a  lifetime of 10^10 years, which is representative for nuclei with alpha decay.
the number of nuclei n(t) remaining after elapsed time t from an initial sample of n_0 nuclei diminishes exponentially according to the decay law.
we will give more detail on this law in the optional video 2.5a.
in the next video, we will talk about the other two types of radioactivity, namely beta and gamma decays.
[music]
