[MUSIC] During this second module, we deal
with nuclear physics and its application. We'll now discuss radioactivity. In this fourth video, we'll talk
about nuclear decay in general, and the alpha decay in particular. After watching this video, you will be able to describe the valley
of stability and its surroundings. To know how to locate and characterize
the nuclei with respect to this valley, and characterize alpha decays and
their properties. An unstable nucleus can transform
itself in a more stable one through radioactive decay. We distinguish three types, historically
labelled as alpha, beta, and gamma decays. Alpha decay is the spontaneous fission of
a heavy nucleus into a less heavy one and the nucleus of He-4,
also called alpha particle. The beta decays are transformation
between a nuclear neutron into a proton, or vice versa,
by respectively emitting an electron and its antineutrino or
a positron and its neutrino. This way, both baryon number and
lepton number are conserved. This decay is often leave the daughter
the nucleus in an excited state, and a gamma decays allows it to return
it to its ground state by emitting one or more photons. Decays are a spontaneous processes. The happen if they tighten
the binding of a nucleus. Thus very heavy nuclei
can reduce their mass and increase their binding energy by emitting
a tightly-bound He-4 nucleus. Nuclei which are rich in neutrons can gain
a more symmetric state by transforming one of them into a proton
via a ß- decay. Nuclei, which are rich in protons, can
correct this asymmetry by a ß+ decay. And excited daughter nuclei can reach
their ground state by meeting one or more photons. All these reactions take the nucleus
closer to the valley of stability. This table shows
the distribution of nuclei with the stable isotopes
over the periodic system. About 60 radioactive nuclei
are naturally present on Earth, compared to about 1,000
radioactive isotopes so far produced in the laboratory. When our planet was formed, we can assume that all these nuclei
were roughly equally abundant. The absences of certain
radioactive nuclei today can give us an idea of
the age of the solar system. This estimate give us an age of
roughly 10 billion years for the Sun. All nuclei with a shorter lifetime
have completely disappeared. The naturally present radioactive
nuclei have a nuclear charge, Z, between 81 and 92. They are characterized by
an excess of neutrons. Since they are heavy,
they first undergo an alpha decay, leading to an even larger
relative excess of neutrons. This then can be fixed by
subsequent beta decay. The grand daughters are often
themselves unstable and undergo alpha decay and so on. This results in a chain of alpha and
beta decays which will continue until the valley of stability in the N-Z
plane is reached. All of this results in four
series of alpha emitters where the daughters progressively differ
by a multiple of four nucleons. We have the Thorium series with
a mass number which is 4N, the Neptunian series with mass
number A equal to 4N + 1, the Uranium-Radium series with A equal to 4N + 2,
and the Uranium-Actinium series
with A equal to 4N + 3. One of the important applications
of radioactivity is the dating of organic materials, which can
work up to several thousand years. We will see this in more
detail when we speak about radioisotope dating in video 2.7. Let us now discuss the physics
of alpha decay in more detail. A parent nucleus, P, decays into a daughter
nucleus D via emission of a He-4 nucleus. This corresponds to a spontaneous fission
into daughter nuclei of vary asymmetric mass, since the nucleus D is much
heavier than the He-4. For more details on other fission processes,
we refer you to the video 2.8. If we consider the parent
nucleus to be at rest, energy conservation gives us a relation
between the masses and energies. Since the number of electrons
is unchanged in the reaction, you can directly use atomic mass for
this calculation. T_alpha and T_D are the kinetic
energies of the alpha particle and the daughter nucleus. The gain in binding energy that drives
the decay is called the Q value. And it is converted into the kinetic
energy of the decay products. An example of the calculation of
T_alpha and T_D is given in video 2.4a. Because of the asymmetry in
the masses the alpha particle takes most of the kinetic energy. The spectra of alpha particles
coming from the decay of the same isotope can reveal
intermediate metastable states. One the observes alpha particles
with slightly different but, of course, quantized energies.
One also observes gamma ray emission which comes from the decay
cascade towards the ground state. The parent nucleus can of course also
directly decay to the ground state without passing by intermediate states. This direct decay results in
the most energetic alpha particle. An example is shown here for
the decay chain of Am-241, which is a radioactive source
often used in the laboratory. The kinetic energy of an alpha
particle from nuclear decay is typically of the order of 5 MeV. When such a low energy particle
approaches a heavy nucleus from outside, it cannot penetrate the Coulomb barrier. For a nucleus of mass number about 200,
it has a typical height of 20 to 25 MeV. So why does the process work
in the opposite direction? How can an alpha particle traverse
the Coulomb barrier from the inside? The answer is given by
the quantum process of tunneling. The probability that
an alpha particle traverses the Coulomb barrier is of
the order of 10^-40. But this is the probability of
traversing on a single trial. This is why a low energy alpha particle from the outside cannot
penetrate the barrier. The velocity of an alpha particle,
bound to a nucleus with kinetic energy of about 44 MeV, is not
relativistic but still impressive. It has a velocity of about
0.15 speed of light. Confined to a region with a radius of
about 10^-12 centimeters, the particle bounces off the barrier
with a frequency of about 4.5 10^21 times per second. The probability of penetration per second is thus
0.5 10^-18 per second. This quantity is called
the decay constant lambda, which is the inverse of the lifetime tau. For a typical nucleus we find a 
lifetime of 10^10 years, which is representative for
nuclei with alpha decay. The number of nuclei N(t)
remaining after elapsed time t from an initial sample of N_0 nuclei diminishes
exponentially according to the decay law. We will give more detail on this
law in the optional video 2.5a. In the next video, we will talk about
the other two types of radioactivity, namely beta and gamma decays. [MUSIC]