[music].
we're going to compute the volume of a  sphere.
well here i got a clay sphere.
and if i measure if i find that it's  diameter its about 4.2.  the diameter is about 4.2 centimeters.
so its radius, say 2.1 centimeters.
now, we're going to take this sphere and  crush it flat.
and i want to make it so that it's about  1 centimeter thick.
now i'll estimate the volume of that  blob.
so we measure this thing's maybe a bit  under 7 centimeters by a bit over 5  centimeters, and it's a centimeter thick.
so i'd guess that the volume is about 35  cubic centimeters.
but that wasn't all that precise.
but we can do the calculation precisely  by taking the sphere, slicing it into  discs thin cylinders.
integrating those thin cylinders right  and that'll give us the exact volume of  the sphere.
so, we're going to take the sphere and  i'm going to slice this thing up into  lots and lots of little tiny cylinders.
we have to figure out the radius of each  of those thin cylinders.
well let me draw the picture again,  alright?
here's the plane, this is the y axis and  the x axis, and i've got my circle in the  xy plane.
and here is the sphere sitting in space.
and in some height call that height y.  i got a thin cylinder, what i want to do  is to figure the radius of that thin  cylinder.
really what that amounts is figuring out  the coordinates of this point here.
right.
i want to figure out what that x  coordinate is, so that x, y lands on that  circle.
well i know the equation for the circle  in the xy plane.
that's x squared plus y squared equals r  squared, r is the radius of the sphere  that i'm thinking about.
and i can solve this for x.  x equals the square root of r squared  minus y squared.
this is the radius of this little tiny  thin blue cylinder here.
and i'm going to cut up my sphere into a  whole bunch of these little tiny  cylinders.
and add up the volume of those cylinders  to give me the volume of the whole  sphere.
now i want to figure out the volume of  that thin cylinder.
now, what's the volume of this slice?
what's the volume of that thin cylinder.
well, it's pi times the radius of that  cylinider, which is given by this.
so the radius is the square root of r  squared minus y squared and it's that  radius squared.
right, this is pi radius of cylinder  squared, times the height of that  cylinder, well the height of that  cylinder is dy.
so this is giving me the volume of this  thin cylinder.
we have to think about the end points of  integration.
well how big and how small can y be?
well y goes all the way down here to  minus r and y goes all the way up here to  r.  so when i set up my integral and i want  to integrate this, y goes from minus r to  r.  now we can integrate.
so first i'll simplify the integrand.
this is the integral y goes from minus r  to r of pi times the square root squared,  just r squared minus y squared dy.
now i can simplify this a bit more.
i've got a constant, always pull that  constant out.
this is pi times the integral from minus  r to r of r squared minus y squared dy.
now i've gotta cook up an anti-derivative  of this.
alright, to use a fundamental term of  calculus.
so this'll be pi times, so what's an  anti-derivative of just r squared, r is  just a constant here.
so an anti-derivative of that will just  be r squared times y minus an  anti-derivative of y squared is y cubed  over three.
i'll be ecaluating that from r and minus  r.  but if you think about it a bit i can get  away with using from 0 to r if i multiply  this by 2.  and that'll simplify the calculation  somewhat.
alright, now i was going to plug in r and  plug in 0.  so, when i plug in r, i get r squared  times r minus r cubed over 3.  and when i plug in 0 i just get 0.  so i don't have to subtract that.
and i can keep working on this.
what do i do?
i got 2 pi r cubed minus 1 3rd r cubed.
let's call this 3 3rd's cubed.
alright, so this is now 2 3rd r cubed  times 2 pi or this ends up being 4 3rd's  pi r cubed.
we did it, yeah the volume of a sphere  here of a radius r.  we just calculated it, its 4 3rds pi r  cubed and we could reach into even higher  dimensions.
for example, you could try to write down  an integral that calculates the volume of  a hyper sphere.
what's a hyper sphere?
well, that's the higher dimensional  analog of the regular old sphere, a  sphere is sort of a stack of circles.
so a hypersphere will be a stack of  spheres but in the fourth dimension.
