Hello, my name is Helen Tibbo. Welcome to Research Data Management and
Sharing. Before I describe what we will
be exploring in this course, I would like to tell you a little
bit about the CRADLE project, and my background. This MOOC was developed by
the CRADLE project at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and was funded by the Institute of Museum and
Library Services, or IMLS. The CRADLE project stands for
Curating Research Assets and Data using Lifecycle Education, and is a collaboration between the School
of Information and Library Science, the Odum Institute for Research and Social
Science, and the UNC University Libraries. EDINA and the Data Library at
the University of Edinburgh also contributed content to this MOOC. The folks at the University of Edinburgh
have created another great resource for learning about research data
management called MANTRA. We strongly encourage students
to explore this rich resource. Now, a bit about me and
why I am teaching this course. I am an alumni distinguished professor
at the School of Information and Library Science at UNC,
where I teach courses on data management, digital preservation,
and records management. I was president of the Society of
American Archivists from 2010-2011, and I have been the principal
investigator on a number of IMLS funded projects
focused on digital curation. I am currently the head of the Standards
and Policies, Community Practice for the National Science Foundation funded Datanet Federation Consortium Project
based at UNC. So, why learn about
research data management? Today funding agencies and journals
are increasingly requiring researchers to share, archive, and plan for
the management of their data. As research and information professionals
respond to these new requirements, data curation knowledge is necessary for
the effective management, long-term preservation, and reuse of data. This course will provide students
with knowledge of data management, best practices throughout
the research life cycle from the planning stage all the way to
when data will ideally be shared and made available within
a trustworthy repository. Besides responding to requirements,
effective data management can also help researchers
optimize their research output, increase the impact of their research and
support open scientific inquiry. We will begin this course by
building a basic understanding of research data and data management. We will then cover data management
planning and funder requirements. In module three, we will delve more
deeply into some best practices and suggestions for working with data. And then in module four,
we will discuss the benefits and challenges of data sharing, and some techniques to enable researchers
to easily use each other's data. We will end with a module
on how to preserve data and the roles of trustworthy repositories. By the end of this course, you will have
a firm understanding of data management best practices, as well as many data
management tools and resources to help you foster data sharing and the conduct
of better science and scholarship. Let's start. [MUSIC]