[music] welcome back.
in this lesson, which concludes this module, we will look into the concept of fog computing, its basic ideas, and expected benefits.
so what is fog computing?
in another video lecture, we talked about cloud computing where you transfer all the data generated by internet of things devices to the back-end servers and analyze it there.
each intelligence, or as cisco calls it, fog computing is the opposite.
fog computing suggests that some processing takes place at the end devices or gateways.
it's called edge intelligence because the computation takes place at the edge of the network where the data is initially generated instead of the core where it is later transferred.
in this video lecture, we will look into basic concepts of edge intelligence and fog computing.
there are few drivers for the trend towards fog computing.
first, big data or the large amounts of data generated by millions of tiny devices can be too difficult to transfer around the networks.
moving it from a service to a service or from a data center to another will consume time, energy, and bandwidth.
second, there is a paradigm, called the moore-nielsen paradigm, stating that data gets accumulated at the edge is faster than the network can push into the core.
as an example, a jet engine produces 20 terabytes of data for each flight hour.
it is not possible to transfer all of these data to the cloud in a real time.
the third driver for fog computing is the fact that storage and processing power are becoming very cheap.
so instead of dumb devices that just pump data back to the core, you can have intelligents, or semi-intelligent ones, at the edges.
lastly, you need fog computing or edge intelligence to filter through all these massive amount of data before you can transfer it to the cloud.
here are some of the characteristics and benefits of fog computing.
fog computing will offer better latency and improved location awareness.
different types of nodes will come together to form fog deployments.
fog computing will offer local analytics and intelligence at the edge of the network.
distributed intelligence will effectively cut down the amount of data that is transferred upwards to the cloud.
as data is available locally, local operations can continue to perform, although in a limited capacity even if the back-end connections are lost.
you won't have to move sensitive data, it will stay close to the source.
think of patient's medical records being analyzed locally rather than sending them to the cloud.
here is a list of different fog iot platforms and service providers.
there are not that many providers yet as fog computing is a relatively new concept.
and here is the summary of all things edge intelligence.
this ends the web connectivity part of the course.
let's walk through what we have learned in our course so far.
we started with the basics of the internet, and studied the tcp/ip model.
we then discussed connectivity solutions for cyber-physical systems.
we also discussed some of the main communication protocols.
examples of how to build web connectivity into your design, and how to design restful embedded web services were presented.
then we touched on two important topics in cyber-phyiscal systems or internet of things, cloud, iot, and fog computing.
in the next modules, we will talk about another major topic related to cyber-physical systems, namely security.
we will go through security protocols and algorithms and help you understand some of the attacks against cyber-physical systems and how to defend against these attacks.
[sound]
