[sound] here's an application of the  intermediate value theorem i'm very fond  of.
here's how it goes.
suppose you've got a function f.  f is continuous in the closed interval  between zero and one.
and whenever x is between zero and one, f  of x is between zero and one.
so that's what you've got to suppose when  you get out of this.
then, there is a point x, x between zero  and one, and f of x = x.  it's telling you that there exists an  input.
so that if you apply f to that input  value, you get the output which is the  same as the thing you plugged in.
you call these things fixed points.
you imagine that f is moving around the  points between zero and one,  and you're finding a point x which  doesn't move a fixed point.
why is something like this true?
let's see.
let me use the intermediate value theorem  but i'm not going to apply the  intermediate value theorem to f but i'm  going to make up a new function.
g(x) =  f(x) - x.  what do i know about g?
g's continuous.
f is continuous by assumption.
the identity function x is continuous and  differences of continuous functions are  continuous.
so, g is a continuous function and the  closed interval 01.  i also know some of the values of g.  what's g of zero?
well, g(0) is by definition f(0) - 0.  f(0) is between zero and one.
so i've got a number between zero and one  minus zero,  that number's at least zero.
i also know something about g(1).
g(1) is by definition f(1) - 1 f(1) is  between zero and one, it could be zero,  could be one.
but, a number between zero and one minus  one is less than or equal to zero.
what do i know altogether?
i've got a continuous function g, its  value at zero is bigger than equal to  zero.
its value at one is less than equal to  zero.
by the intermediate value theorem, this  gives me a point x so that g(x) = 0.  why do i care about finding a point x so  that g(x) is equal to zero?
well, if i take a look at what g(x) is  equal to, g(x) is f(x) - x.  so, i found a point x so that f(x) - x is  equal to zero.
i found a point x so that f(x) = x, i  found the fixed point.
so, we've seen why this is true.
let'd try to apply this to a specific  example life f(x) equals cosine x.  now, here i've got a graph of cosine and  that the graph of y equals cosine x.  now, what do i know about cosine?
i know cosine's continuous and cosine of  a number between zero and one is a number  between zero and one.
so, our statement applies to it.
there's a fixed point for cosine.
there's some value of x between zero and  one so cosine of x equals x.  let's see if we can find that on a  computer.
okay.
i've got cosine loaded up on to my  computer.
cosine of one is about 0.54.  let me decrease the input.
and i notice that cosine of 0.68 is 0.77.  here the input is smaller than the  output.
let me increase the input.
now, notice what happened.
now the input is 0.74 but the output is  smaller than 0.74.  cosine of 0.74 is just 0.73.  now, it decreased the input.
oh, the opposite thing happened.
now the input is smaller than the output.
now, i'll increase the input.
i'll decrease the input.
increase the input.
and you can see that i, i can sort of  zoom in or narrow in on the correct value  of of x so that cosine of x is equal to  x.  sees in the computer i found that this  point here is at about 0.739.  so, without a number between zero and  one, cosine of that number is itself.
it's a fixed point for cosine.
these kinds of fixed point theorem  statements that assert the existence of  fixed points,  they pervade mathematics.
here's another example.
i've got a map of ohio right here.
let me apply a continuous function to  this map.
[sound] i'm going to throw it down to the  ground,  stomp on it.
and now let's take a look at it.
[sound] the question is, is there a point  on the map which is exactly above its  corresponding point in the ground?
and indeed there is.
i'll use this pin to stab through that  point.
[sound]
