people have thought, people have wondered  about infinity for thousands of years.
we're going to continue that tradition of  thinking about infinity, but we're going  to focus in on one specific instance of  infinity in mathematics.
what does it mean to say that the limit  of a function equals infinity?
here's what it means.
the limit of f of x, as x approaches a  equals infinity means that f of x is as  large as you like.
provided x is close enough to a.  as a bit of a warning, i'm not saying  that this number limit f of x, x  approaches a is equal to this number,  infinity is not a number.
what i am doing here is attaching a  precise meaning to the entire statement  that the limit of f of x is infinity.
so, that's what it means precisely, but  what does it mean practically.
let's go to the board.
this is an example,  the limit of one over x squared as x  approaches zero.
now this limit is not equal to a number.
one over x squared is not getting close  to a number when x is approaches zero.
but one over x squared is as big as i  want it to be if i'm willing to put x  close to zero.
for instance, if x is within a 1000th of  zero, what happens?
well to say x is within a 1000th of zero  is to say that x is between minus.00  and.001.
now, x is also non zero here because i  don't want to divide by zero.
so i've got a non zero number within a  1000th of zero.
what does that mean about x squared?
[sound].
well that means that x squared is, it's  bigger than zero because if i square any  non zero number, it's positive and it's  less than, [sound] a millionth.
so if i take a number within a thousandth  of zero and i square it, that was within  a millionth of zero.
and [sound] what does that mean about one  over x squared?
well if x squared is within a millionth  of zero, one over x squared is now  bigger, [sound] than a million.
what happened, right?
i made one over x squared very large by  making x close enough but not equal to  zero.
and there's nothing particularly special  about these numbers.
if i wanted one over x squared to be  bigger than a trillion, i would just need  x to be within a millionth of zero.
this example is at once maybe too  complicated because i've got some  explicit numbers in here.
and maybe this formula is not complicated  enough to, to really get a sense of  what's going on.
let's look at a slightly more complicated  function.
so what's the limit of x plus two over x  squared minus 2x plus one as x approaches  one.
and this is a limit of a quotient.
so your first temptation is to think the  limit of a quotient the quotients the  limits.
but what's the limit of the denominator?
the denominator is a polynomial.
polynomials are continuous.
so i can evaluate the limit of the  denominator just by plugging in one.
and if i plug in one, i get one minus two  plus one.
that's zero.
the limit of the denominator is zero.
so i can't simply say that the limit of  the quotient is the quotient of the  limits in this case.
because the limit of the denominator is  zero.
and that limit law does not apply in this  case.
what am i going to do?
well i could also notice the denominator  factors.
x squared minus 2x plus one, i can  rewrite that.
[sound] x squared minus 2x plus one is x  minus one squared.
[sound] so instead of evaluating this  limit, i could try to look at this limit,  the limit of x plus two over x minus one  squared as x approaches one.
now what do i know?
the numerator is x plus two and if x is  close to one, i can make x plus two close  to three.
what about the denominator?
a number close to one, minus one squared,  is a number close to zero.
but not just a number close to zero.
it's a positive number close to zero.
so let me write this down.
alright.
the numerator [sound] is about three.
[sound] and the denominator [sound] is  about what?
well, it's some small but positive  number.
[sound].
and what happens if i take a number,  like, near three, and divide it by a  number which is small and positive?
that number can be as big as i like.
so i can make this quantity as large as i  like, if i make x close enough to one.
because i can make the numerator close to  three, and i can make the denominator as  close to zero and positive as i like.
and if i take a number close to three and  divide it by a number close to zero, i  can make a number as large as i want.
so this limit [sound] is equal to  infinity.
the homework includes even trickier  situations.
for instance, limit problems where x  approaches negative infinity, instead of  infinity.
if you get stuck i encourage you to  contact us.
we're here to help you.
