[music].
a lot of calculus is about understanding  the qualitative features of functions.
nobody really cares about f of 17.  but you might care about f of a big  number, qualitatively.
we're going to try to make this concept  of big number a bit more precise.
well, here's how we're going to get  around talking about a big number.
we're going to talk about the limit.
the limit of f of x as x approaches  infinity equals to l.  means that f of x is as close as you want  it to be to l, provided x is large  enough.
so instead of talking about just plugging  in a big number, i'm going to say f at  some big number, so to speak, is equal to  l if i can make the output of f close to  l by plugging in big enough numbers.
at this point we've seen a bunch of  different definitions of limits.
but they're all united by a common theme.
what if someone had asked us to cook up a  definition of the limit of f of x equals  infinity as x goes to infinity?
could we come up with a definition for  this?
yeah, absolutely we can, here we go.
the limit of f of x as x approaches  infinity equals infinity means that i can  make f of x as large as you want it to be  provided x is large enough.
consistently when we're talking about  infinity in limits we're never actually  talking about a specific value.
we're just talking about a value which is  as big as you want it to be.
let's go do an example at the blackboard.
there is a question.
with the limit, of 2x over x+1 as x  approaches infinity.
before we dive into this analytically,  lets get some numeric evidence.
this is my function, again fx)= of 2x  over x+1.1.
i want to know qualitatively, what  happens when i plug in big numbers in  this function?
so, lets say f100).
of 100.  well, that's not too hard to figure out.
22 times 100 is 200 and 100 plus one is  now, 200 divided by 101 is pretty close  to 2.  and there's nothing too special about  100, right?
if i'd done this four million i would  have gotten two million over a million in  one, which would be even closer to 2.  numerically, it looks like this limit's  two, but we just figured that out by  plugging in some big numbers.
i want a more rigorous argument, some  analytic that is limit is actually equal  to two.
how i'm going to proceed?
my first guess would be to use the limit  law for quotients.
this is the limit of a quotient which is  the quotient of limits provided the  limits exist and the limit of the  denominator is none zero.
bad news here is the limits don't exist.
the limit of the numerator is infinity  which isn't a number.
so i can't use my limit law for quotients  here.
instead i'm going to sneak up on this  limit problem by wearing a disguise.
i'm going to multiply by a disguised  version of one.
i'm going to multiply by one over x  divided by one over x.  now this is just one.
admittedly, i have changed the function.
the function's not defined anymore at  zero.
but for large values of x, this doesn't  affect anything.
and i'm taking the limit as x goes to  infinity.
so i only care about agreement at large  values of x.  i'll do some algebra.
this limit has now the limit of 2x times  one over x.  which is two divided by the limit of x  plus one times one over x.  which is one plus one over x.  maybe it doesn't look like i've made a  lot of progress here, but this is a huge  progress.
the limit of the numerator is now a  number, it's two.
and the limit of the denominator is also  a number.
and a non zero number, at that.
so i can use my limit law for quotients.
this is the limit of a quotient, which is  the quotient of a limit.
it's the limit of two, the numerator  divided by the limit of the denominator,  as x approaches infinity.
the limit of the numerator is just the  limit of a constant, which is 2.  the limit of the denominator is a limit  of a sum, which is the sum of the limits  provided the limits exist, and they do.
the limit of 1 is just 1.  and what's the limit of 1 over x as x  approaches infinity?
well that's asking, what is 1 over x  close to when x is very large?
well i can make 1 over x as close to zero  as i like if i'm willing to make x large  enough.
so the limit of 1 over x as x approaches  infinity is zero.
that means my original limit is 2 over 1  plus zero, which is 2.
[music].
