[MUSIC] Welcome back. In this lesson, which concludes this
module, we will look into the concept of fog computing, its basic ideas,
and expected benefits. So what is fog computing? In another video lecture, we talked about Cloud computing where
you transfer all the data generated by internet of things devices to
the back-end servers and analyze it there. Each intelligence, or as Cisco calls it,
fog computing is the opposite. Fog computing suggests that
some processing takes place at the end devices or gateways. It's called Edge Intelligence because the computation takes place at
the edge of the network where the data is initially generated instead of
the core where it is later transferred. In this video lecture, we will look into basic concepts of
Edge Intelligence and fog computing. There are few drivers for
the trend towards fog computing. First, big data or
the large amounts of data generated by millions of tiny devices can be too
difficult to transfer around the networks. Moving it from a service to a service or from a data center to another will
consume time, energy, and bandwidth. Second, there is a paradigm, called the
Moore-Nielsen Paradigm, stating that data gets accumulated at the edge is faster
than the network can push into the core. As an example, a jet engine produces 20
terabytes of data for each flight hour. It is not possible to transfer all of
these data to the Cloud in a real time. The third driver for
fog computing Is the fact that storage and processing power are becoming very cheap. So instead of dumb devices that
just pump data back to the core, you can have intelligents, or
semi-intelligent ones, at the edges. Lastly, you need fog computing or
Edge Intelligence to filter through all these massive amount of data
before you can transfer it to the Cloud. Here are some of the characteristics and
benefits of fog computing. Fog computing will offer better latency
and improved location awareness. Different types of nodes will come
together to form fog deployments. Fog computing will offer
local analytics and intelligence at the edge of the network. Distributed intelligence
will effectively cut down the amount of data that is
transferred upwards to the Cloud. As data is available locally,
local operations can continue to perform, although in a limited capacity even
if the back-end connections are lost. You won't have to move sensitive data,
it will stay close to the source. Think of patient's medical records being
analyzed locally rather than sending them to the Cloud. Here is a list of different fog IoT
platforms and service providers. There are not that many providers yet as
fog computing is a relatively new concept. And here is the summary of
all things Edge Intelligence. This ends the web connectivity
part of the course. Let's walk through what we have
learned in our course so far. We started with the basics of the
internet, and studied the TCP/IP model. We then discussed connectivity
solutions for cyber-physical systems. We also discussed some of
the main communication protocols. Examples of how to build web
connectivity into your design, and how to design RESTful embedded
web services were presented. Then we touched on two important
topics in cyber-phyiscal systems or Internet of Things, Cloud,
IoT, and fog computing. In the next modules,
we will talk about another major topic related to cyber-physical systems,
namely security. We will go through security protocols and
algorithms and help you understand some of the attacks against cyber-physical systems
and how to defend against these attacks. [SOUND]