[MUSIC] In this second module, we are in the
process of discussing nuclear physics, and we now turn to a few examples
of its applications. In this seventh video,
We will briefly discuss two applications, which are radiocarbon dating and
imaging by nuclear magnetic resonance. After watching this video you will be able
to describe how one determines the age of organic substances based on
their contents of C-14. And to describe the principles of imaging
using nuclear magnetic resonance. One of the important applications of
natural radioactivity is the dating of organic materials by what is
called radiocarbon method. This works up to several thousand years
and with relatively good accuracy. An example is the very controversial
dating of the Turin linen, which some believe to show an imprint
of the body of Jesus after his death and it is shown in this image behind me. Now, let us examine how this
method dates organic materials. Our atmosphere contains a lot
stable N-14 and C-12, which play an important role
play in organic processes. The atmosphere is constantly hit by cosmic
rays and very high energy, they consist mainly of protons and helium nuclei, but
also electrons, photons and neutrons. Cosmic rays interact
with atmospheric nuclei. The slow neutrons they produce,
among many other particles, can interact with N-14 to
produce the radioactive carbon isotope C-14 in
a charge exchange reaction. Carbon-14 is a beta emitter with a
lifetime of a bit more than 8,000 years, so well suited to date materials
that are several thousand years old. At any moment, our atmosphere thus
contains a majority of C-12 and a small quantity of C-14 nuclei. Both of them can form CO2 molecules, since
their chemical properties are the same. Living organisms, like plants,
consume carbon dioxide for their photosynthesis, and
will integrate both carbon isotopes alike. When the organism dies,
the CO2 ingestion stops. From then on,
the C-14 component slowly decays, but the level of C-12 will stay constant. One thus uses the relative concentration
of the two isotopes to estimate the age of fossils. But of course, the concentration of C-14 in the
atmosphere is not necessarily constant. It depends on the flux of
cosmic rays at a given time and this dating method thus
needs a calibration. This curve shown here gives an example
of the deviation from linearity of the method. Let us now turn to a noninvasive medical
imaging technique that uses nuclear spin. Imaging by nuclear magnetic resonance,
NMR, is based on the absorption and re-emission of electromagnetic radiation
via the nuclear magnetic moment. The sample is immersed in
magnetic field B_0 to establish an external quantization axis. The component of the nuclear
magnetic moment along this axis will be proportional to the quantum
number m_s, which is equal to plus or minus one-half,
depending on the spin orientation. The associated energy is
proportional to both m_s and B_0. The transition energy between the two
orientations of the spin, parallel and anti-parallel to the magnetic axis,
is ∆E = hbar gamma B_0, where the proportionality
factor gamma is equal to the gyromagnetic constant
times e divided by 2M. The spin vector rotates around
the magnetic axis with a Larmor frequency nu_0, which is equal
to gamma B_0/(2 pi). A photon can thus be absorbed by
the nucleus if its frequency corresponds to this resonance in the range of radio
frequencies if B_0 is a few tesla. This resonance can then be use to do
what is called nuclear spectroscopy. And you see a nuclear spectroscopy
apparatus in the image on the right. But let us now discuss how one
uses this to locate molecules and nuclei inside your body. By varying the magnetic field
around B_0 with gradients in all three spatial directions,
one can correlate the resonance frequency with the position of
a certain type of nucleus. The intensity of the signal
is then proportional to the local density of the element. This is the principle of nuclear
magnetic resonance imaging, NMR. One uses the resonance frequencies of,
for example, hydrogen, Na-23, or P-31 to obtain an image of
the internal structure of the body. Most often, hydrogen is indeed used to obtain access
to the density distribution of liquids and soft tissues, which are difficult
to render by classical tomography. The patient is introduced
into a solenoid or between two Helmholtz coils,
as in these two examples. They provide the field B_0
of typically a few tesla. Additional coils adapted to
the body region under examination provide the magnetic field gradient. A pulsed radio frequency
signal is then applied, and its absorption by the tissue is
analyzed by Fourier analysis. The height of the Fourier peak
at the resonance frequency measures the local density
of the chosen nucleus. After a characteristic relaxation
time between milliseconds and seconds, the RF signal is restored. The time delay can reveal
additional tissue properties. One then obtains an image with a typical
resolution of order millimeters, and a very good contrast, as you can see
in this NMR picture of the knee. In addition,
the image shows also the soft tissue, difficult to visualize by
classical x-ray tomography. The mechanism of nuclear magnetic
resonance even allows for a functional imaging of organs. This is due to the magnetic
properties of hemoglobin, which transport the oxygen in our blood. Hemoglobin is found in
two different forms. The red blood cells,
which are oxygenized by the lungs, contain oxyhemoglobin,
a molecule which is inactive in NMR. The red blood cells, which have
delivered the oxygen to the tissue, contain deoxyhemoglobin,
which is a paramagnetic molecule. This means that under the influence
of the external magnetic field, it will acquire a magnetization,
which is detectable by NMR. Brain activity, for example, causes characteristic dynamics
of blood flow and composition. In active brain regions, where
the neurons are stimulated, one observes simultaneously a higher oxygen consumption
and a higher local blood flow. In healthy tissue,
the increase in blood flow is more important than the local
consumption of oxygen. This corresponds to a relative
decrease in deoxyhemoglobin, which can be used to
localize brain activity. In the next video, we'll represent
another important application, the physical principle of energy
release in nuclear fission, which is currently furnishing about
10% of the global energy consumption. [MUSIC]