[music] thus far, i've been trying to  sell you on the idea that the derivative  of f measures how we wiggling the input  effects the output.
a very important point is that  sensitivity to the input depends on where  you're wiggling the input.
and here's an example.
think about the function f(x)=x^3.
f(2) which is 2^3 is 8.  f(2.01) 2.01 cubed is 8.120601.  so, the input change of 0.01 was  magnified by about 12 times in the  output.
now, think about f(3) which is 3^3, which  is 27.  f(3.01) is 27.270901 so the input change  of 0.01 was magnified by about 24 times  as much,  right?
this input change and this input  change were magnified by different  amounts.
you know, you shouldn't be too surprised  by that right, the derivative, of course,  measures this.
the derivative of this function is 3x^2,  so the derivative at two is 3*2^2 is 3*4  is 12 and not coincidentally, there's a  12 here and there's a 12 here, right,  that's reflecting the sensitivity of the  output to the input change.
and the  derivative of this function at 3 is  3*3^2, which is 3*9 which is 27 and  again, not too surprisingly here's a 27,  right?
the point is just that how much  the output is effected depends on where  you're wiggling the input.
if you're wiggling around 2, the output  is affected by about 12 times as much if  we're wiggling around 3, the output is  affected by 27 times as much,  right?
the derivative isn't constant  everywhere, it depends on where you're  plugging in.
we can package together all of those  ratios of output changes to input changes  as a single function.
what i mean by this, well, f'(x) is the  limit as h goes to 0 of f(x+h)-f(x)/h.
and this limit doesn't just calculate the  derivative at a particular point.
this is actually a rule, right, this is a  rule for a function.
the function is f'(x) and this tells me  how to compute that function at some  input x.  the derivative is a function.
now, since the derivative is itself a  function, i can take the derivative of  the derivative.
i'm often going to write the second  derivative, the derivative of the  derivative this way,  f''(x).
there's some other notations that you'll  see in the wild as well.
so, here's the derivative of f.  if i take the derivative of the  derivative, this would be the second  derivative but i might write this a  little bit differently.
i could put these 2 d's together, so to  speak, and these dx's together and then  i'll be left with this.
the second derivative of f(x).
a subtle point here is if f were maybe y,  you might see this written down and  sometimes people write this dy^2, that's  not right.
i mean, it's d^2 dx^2 is the second  derivative of y.  the derivative measures the slope of the  tangent line, geometrically.
so, what does the second dreivative  measure?
well, let's think back to what  the derivative is measuring.
the derivative is measuring how changes  to the input affect the output.
the deravitive of the derivative measures  how changing the input changes, how  changing the input changes the output,  and i'm not just repeating myself here,  it's really what the second derivative is  measuring.
it's measuring how the input affects how  the input affects the output.
if you say it like that, it doesn't make  a whole lot of sense.
maybe a geometric example will help  convey what the second derivative is  measuring.
here's a function, y=1+x^2.
and i've drawn this graph and i've  slected three points on the graph.
let's at a tangent line through those 3  points.
so, here's the tangent line through this  bottom point, the point 0,1 and the  tangent line to the graph at that point  is horizontal, right, the derivative is 0  there.
if i move over here, the tangent line has  positive slope and if i move over to this  third point and draw the tangent line  now, the derivative there is even larger.
the line has more slope than the line  through that point.
what's going on here is that the  derivative is different.
here it's 0, here it's positive, here  it's larger still, right?
the derivative  is changing and the second derivative is  measuring how quickly the derivative is  changing.
contrast that with say, this example of  just a perfectly straight line.
here, i've drawn 3 points on this line.
if i draw the tangent line to this line,  it's just itself.
i mean, the tangent line to this line is  just the line i started with, right?
so,  the slope of this tangent line isn't  changing at all.
and the second derivative of this  function, y=x+1, really is 0, right?
the function's derivative isn't changing  at all.
here, in this example, the function's  derivative really is changing and i can  see that if i take the second derivative  of this,  if i differentiate this, i get 2x, and if  i differentiate that again, i just get  two, which isn't 0.  there's also a physical interpretation of  the second derivative.
so, let's call p(t), the function that  records your position at time t.  now, what happens if i differentiate  this?
what's the derivative with respect  to time of p(t)?
i might write that, p'(t).
that's asking, how quickly is your  position changing, well, that's velocity.
that's how quickly you're moving.
you got a word for that.
now, i could ask the same question again.
what happens if i differentiate velocity,  i am asking how quickly is your velocity  changing.
we've got a word for that, too.
that's acceleration.
that's the rate of change of your rate of  change.
there's also an economic interpretation  of the second derivative.
so, maybe right now dhappiness, ddonuts  for me is equal to 0,  right?
what this is saying?
this is  saying how much will my happiness be  affected, if i change my donut eating  habits.
if i were really an economist i'd be  talking about marginal utility of donuts  or something, but, this is really a  reasonable statement, right?
this is  saying that right at this moment you  know, eating more donuts really won't  make me any more happier and i probably  am in this state right now, because if  this weren't the case, i'd be eating  donuts.
so, let's suppose this is true right now  and now, something else might be true  right now.
i might know something about the second  derivative of my happiness with respect  to donuts.
what is this saying?
maybe this is  positive right now.
this is saying that a small change to my  donut eating habits might affect how,  changing my donut habits would affect how  happy i am.
if this were positive right now, should i  be eating more donuts, even though  dhappiness, ddonuts is equal to zero?
well, yeah, if this is positive, then a  small change in my donut eating habits,  just one more bite of delicious donut  would suddenly result in dhappiness,  ddonuts being positive,  which should be great, then i should just  keep on eating more donuts.
contrast this with the situation of the  opposite situation, where the second  derivative happens with respect to donuts  isn't positive, but the second derivative  of happiness with respect to donuts is  negative.
if this is the case i absolutely should  not be eating any more donuts because if  i start eating more donuts, then i'm  going to find that, that eating any more  donuts will make me less happy.
let's think about this case  geometrically.
so here, i've drawn a graph of my  happiness depending on how many donuts  i'm eating.
and here's two places that i might be  standing right now on the graph.
these are two places where the derivative  is equal to zero.
and i sort of know that i must be  standing at a place where the derivative  is 0, because if i were standing in the  middle, i'd be eating more donuts right  now.
so, i know that i'm standing either right  here, say, or right here.
or maybe here, or here.
i'm standing some place where the  derivative vanishes.
now, the question is how can i  distinguish between these two different  situations?
right here, if i started  eating some more donuts, i'd really be  much happier.
but here, if i started eating some more  donuts i'd be sadder.
well, look at this situation, this is a  situation where the second derivative of  happiness to respected donuts is  positive,  right?
when i'm standing at the bottom of this  hole, a small change in my donut  consumption starts to increase the extent  to which a change in my donut consumption  will make me happier,  alright?
if i find that the second  derivative of my happiness with respect  to donuts is positive, i should be eating  more donuts to walk up this hill to a  place where i'm happier.
contrast that with a situation where i'm  up here.
again, the derivative is zero so a small  change in my doughnut consumption doesn't  really seem to affect my happiness.
but the second derivative in that  situation is negative.
and what does that mean?
that means a  small change to my donuts consumption  starts to decrease the extent to which  donuts make me happier.
so, if i'm standing up here and i find  that the second derivative of my  happiness with respect to donuts is  negative, i absolutely shouldn't be  eating anymore donuts.
i should just realize that i'm standing  in a place where, at least for small  changes to my donut consumption, i'm as  happy as i can possibly be and i should  just be content to stay there.
there's more to this graph.
look at this graph again.
so, maybe i am standing here.
maybe the derivative of my happiness with  respect to donuts is zero.
maybe the second derivative of my  happiness with respect to donuts is  negative.
so, i realize that i'm as happy as i  really could be for small changes in my  donut consumption.
but if i'm willing to make a drastic  change to my life,  if i'm willing to just gorge myself on  donuts, things are going to get real bad,  but then they're going to get really  really good and i'm going to start  climbing up this great hill.
it's not just about donuts, it's also  true for calculus.
look, right now, you might think things  are really good, they're going to get  worse.
but with just a little bit more  work, you're eventually going to climb up  this hill and you're going to find the  immeasurable rewards that increased  calculus knowledge will bring you.
[music]
