hello, my name is helen tibbo.
welcome to research data management and sharing.
before i describe what we will be exploring in this course, i would like to tell you a little bit about the cradle project, and my background.
this mooc was developed by the cradle project at the university of north carolina at chapel hill, and was funded by the institute of museum and library services, or imls.
the cradle project stands for curating research assets and data using lifecycle education, and is a collaboration between the school of information and library science, the odum institute for research and social science, and the unc university libraries.
edina and the data library at the university of edinburgh also contributed content to this mooc.
the folks at the university of edinburgh have created another great resource for learning about research data management called mantra.
we strongly encourage students to explore this rich resource.
now, a bit about me and why i am teaching this course.
i am an alumni distinguished professor at the school of information and library science at unc, where i teach courses on data management, digital preservation, and records management.
i was president of the society of american archivists from 2010-2011, and i have been the principal investigator on a number of imls funded projects focused on digital curation.
i am currently the head of the standards and policies, community practice for the national science foundation funded datanet federation consortium project based at unc.
so, why learn about research data management?
today funding agencies and journals are increasingly requiring researchers to share, archive, and plan for the management of their data.
as research and information professionals respond to these new requirements, data curation knowledge is necessary for the effective management, long-term preservation, and reuse of data.
this course will provide students with knowledge of data management, best practices throughout the research life cycle from the planning stage all the way to when data will ideally be shared and made available within a trustworthy repository.
besides responding to requirements, effective data management can also help researchers optimize their research output, increase the impact of their research and support open scientific inquiry.
we will begin this course by building a basic understanding of research data and data management.
we will then cover data management planning and funder requirements.
in module three, we will delve more deeply into some best practices and suggestions for working with data.
and then in module four, we will discuss the benefits and challenges of data sharing, and some techniques to enable researchers to easily use each other's data.
we will end with a module on how to preserve data and the roles of trustworthy repositories.
by the end of this course, you will have a firm understanding of data management best practices, as well as many data management tools and resources to help you foster data sharing and the conduct of better science and scholarship.
let's start.
[music]
