we already know how to handle some  integration problems where the integrand  is a powers of sines and cosines.
for example, i can anti-differentiate  sine to and odd power.
how?
by trading in all but one of those sins  for cosines.
let's make this really concrete.
instead of talking about an odd power  well let's just make it 17.  can i antidifferentiate sin to the 17th  power?
yeah, i can rewrite this problem as sin  of x times sin squared x to the 8th  power, because sin square to the 8th  power gives me 16 copies of sin times  more sin gives me 17 copies of sin, now  we can trade sin squared for some cos  signs right, sin squared is 1 minus cos  sign squared to the 8th power.
so if i can do this anti-differentiation  problem all i need to do is do this  anti-differentiation problem.
and i can do that with a substitution.
so make the substitution u equals cosine  x and in that case d u is minus sign x  dx.
now maybe you're complaining you don't  see a minus sign.
and you'll only see sin, but i'll just  put a pair of cancelling minus sins  there, and i see a minus sin next dx so  we got a du and the rest i can write in  terms of u.  specifically, this becomes negative, the  n is derivative of 1 minus u squared to  the 8 power du, is what's left over and  this anti-differentiation problem that i  can do and it is a little bit annoying  cause i guess i gotta expand this thing  out to find an anti-derivative of this,  but i can do it.
but what if instead i'd had an even power  of sine.
well, maybe i'll anti-differentiate sine  to the fouth power.
all right?
so this is not an odd power but an even  power.
that's harder, i can't trade in all of my  sins for cosines because i need just one  left over to make the substitution work.
instead, i'll use an identity, the half  angle formula.
it let's me replace sined squared of x by  1 minus cosine of 2x over 2.  and it lets me replace cosign squared of  x by 1 plus cosign 2x over 2.  how do those help?
well i can rewrite this integral as the  integral of sin squared, squared.
and now i can use this half angle  identity.
this is the same as the integral of what  sin squared.
sin squared is 1 minus cos 2x over 2.  all right?
these are equal.
and still have to square that, dx.
now, i expand.
so, i get this is the same as  integrating.
well, the cos 2x over 2 term, squared is  cosigned squared of 2x over 4.  and there's our cross term.
the 1 half times minus cosign 2 x over 2.  and there's 2 of those.
so i end up getting minus 1 half.
cosigned 2x.
and there's the one half term squared  just plus a quarter, so i just have to do  this integration problem.
i can split that into 3 integrals.
so this gives me the integral of cos sign  squared 2x over 4dx minus the integral of  cos sign 2x over 2dx plus the integral of  1 4th dx.
now, the second and third integration  problem i can do, i'm just going to copy  down this one again.
the integral of cos squared 2x over 4 dx.
this, here, well i could do this by  making a substitution.
u equals 2x, say.
and then i'll get that this is sine of 2x  divided by 4.  and if i integrate a quarter, i get 1 4th  x.  what about that first one?
how do i integrate cosine squared?
so, to handle this, i can repeat the  trick with the half angle identity.
but i'm looking at integrating cosign  squared 2x.
so i'll replace x by 2x and i'll turn  this into a 4x.
so i can use this identity.
how does that go?
well i get instead of this the integral  of 1 plus cosine 4x and instead of over 4  its now over 8 and then i'll just copy  down these things again.
sin 2x over 4 plus a quarter x.  now i can put it all together.
so i want to and differentiate 1 8th.
i get 1 8th x.  and then i want to, and i differentiate  cos 4x over 8, and i get sin of 4x over  32 and then i'll include the rest.
so, i'll subtract sin of 2x over 4.  i'll add a quarter x and i'll add some  constant.
and i could combine the one quarter x and  the 1 8x, so i could right this as 3 8x  plus sine of 4x over 32 minus sine of 2x  over 4 plus c.  i should say that in some cases you can  get away with doing a bit less work.
so i want to calculate the integral from  zero to pi of sine to the fourth and i'll  again start the same way, right i'm going  to integrate from zero to pi and i'll  write this as sine squared squared.
just so i can see how the half angle  formula is going to help me.
alright, now i'll use the half angle  formula as the integral from zero to pi  of 1 minus cosine2x over 2 squared, but  now what do i want to do?
well, i'll expand that out again, so this  is the integral from 0 to pi of 1 fourth  minus the cross term is one half cosign  2x and then plus the cosign times squared  2x over 4.  and now there's a little trick.
i'm integrating from 0 to pi cosign.
right i'm integrating cosign over an  entire period.
and that ends up being 0.  so i can just throw this whole term away  and now i can keep on going.
i can also use the half angle formula  here.
so this is the integral from 0 to pi.
well i've still got the 1/4 plus, and  then what does this become?
by the half angle formula, this is 1  plus.
and instead of 2x.
it's cosine 4x over 8, but i would again,  if i integrate cosine 4x, x going from 0  to pi, that's integrating cosine ove 2  complete periods that ends up cancelling.
so i can just throw that term away, and  all i'm really integrating now is a  quarter plus an 8.  well thats 3 8ths, but i'm integrating  over an interval of life pi, so this  definite integral is 3 8ths pi.
this turn out to be not so bad.
see i'm getting an answer of 3 8ths pi,  but that's not really the point right?
the cool thing about setting this up as a  definite integral is really just how easy  it is to do the calculation since i can  throw away some terms along the way that  i know would integrate to zero.
