[MUSIC] In this second module, we are discussing
nuclear physics and its applications. In this ninth video we will continue
discussing the transformation of a portion of nuclear binding energy into
heat through the fission process. After following this video,
you will know how fission is used and controlled inside nuclear power plants. Natural uranium is a mixture of
only 0.7% U-235 and 99.3% U-238. U-235 has a five time shorter
lifetime than the other isotope and the natural mixture therefore only
contains a small fraction of U-235. Enriched uranium is
a material in which the U-235 component has been increased
by isotope separation. This separation uses the small difference
in mass between the two isotopes to separate them, for example, in a gas
centrifuge filled with uranium fluoride. In these devices rotation generates
an enrichment of the light element towards the axis, and the heavier element
towards the periphery. The devices are used in parallel and
in series to obtain the required quantities and
the desired level of enrichment. Enriched uranium is a critical component
of both civil and military applications. A nuclear bomb usually contains
at least 85% of U-235. But a simple and ineffective weapon can
already be obtained with a minimum of 20%. The International Atomic Energy Agency,
IAEA, attempts to monitor and control the production and storage of
fissile materials around the world. In the controlled environment of
a nuclear reactor, the chain reaction with k roughly equal to 1 can be
used as a sustained energy source. The reactor core contains fuel
rods with a fissile material, control rods with a neutron absorber and a moderator to reduce the neutron
kinetic energy and thermalize them. Thermal neutrons incident on
natural uranium are radiatively captured by U-238 and
will thus not cause fission. That's why one uses uranium
enriched to 3% to 5% of U-235 as fuel in nuclear reactors. The control rods in a reactor
regulate the neutron rate. They are often made of cadmium which has a
high cross section for neutron absorption. By inserting or removing the rods one
manages the flow of neutrons and therefore the reaction rate to keep k close to one
and therefore a constant power source. The role of the moderator,
on the other hand, is to slow down neutrons by scattering to
increase thir probability of capture and therefore increase the fission rate. A material with small absorption
cross section is chosen. Water, H_2O, is used in light water
reactors often found in western countries. In research reactors designed to
produce a large flux of neutrons, one also uses heavy water, D_2O, because the cross-section for neutron capture is smaller in
deuterium than it is in hydrogen. In reactors of the RBMK type like
the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, graphite moderation rods
are used in addition to water. In a nuclear power plant the reactor
core is immersed in a cooling liquid, actually water. It's goal is to collect
the heat generated by the core. Through a heat exchanger the cooling
water is used to produce steam which will in turn drive
turbines to generate electricity. At the exit of the turbines
the steam is condensed and recycled. The residual heat is often removed through
cooling towers or dumped into rivers. The second goal of the coolant is to keep
the core temperature under control and prevent a meltdown of the core. The whole is surrounded by
a containment building, the small roundish building
on the left of this picture, in order to avoid contamination
of the environment by radiation. At the beginning of an exploitation cycle,
the value of k is set to slightly above one, until the desired
power level is reached. And at this point, k will be reduced
to one to have a stable power source. We already calculated the impressive
maximum energy yield related to nuclear fission. Ignoring the efficiency of
power plants and other losses, one gram of uranium is equivalent to
three tons of coal in heat output. This explains the important usage of this
energy source in developed countries. On March 31, 2014,
435 reactors shown in this map, were operating in 31 countries, with a total installed
capacity of 372 gigawatt net. 72 reactors were under construction. In 2012, about 10% of the global electrical energy was
produced by nuclear power. However, most nuclear reactors
today are over 20 years old. The economic crisis in 2008 and the Fukushima nuclear accident
caused a decrease in production of nuclear electricity by about
4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Countries such as Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and Taiwan have announced
the end of their usage of nuclear power. Other countries no longer engage
in new nuclear power plants. According to Wikipedia, the construction of 18 reactors appears
several years late at this time. Nine are under construction
since more than 20 years. However, the fight against
global warming and the necessary reduction of fossil
fuels may change the impression that nuclear fission is a power
source in decline. In the next video, we will present the
principles of nuclear fusion as a source of heat and see how it works in stars and
in future power plants. [MUSIC]