Welcome to this course,
introduction to MongoDB. This course is part of our
specialization, MongoDB Analytics, which has been
designed to provide you with a broader understanding
of how to fully utilize MongoDB from a data science
and analytics perspective. Obviously, we need to
start from the beginning and provide you with
the knowledge foundation on how MongoDB works, how
to operate with MongoDB, and where it fits
your development practices before starting a
full fledged MongoDB journey. In this course, you will learn
the fundamentals of MongoDB that are needed to fully
understand how to leverage its power to perform analytics. These fundamentals will include
topics like MongoDB's document model, importing data
into a MongoDB cluster, or working with the
MongoDB CRUD API, alongside with an introduction
to B's Aggregation framework. These topics will
be explained to you by the means of a demo
application, Mflix, which is a video
streaming application similar to popular online
streaming services. This will give you a
great first encounter of how simple and practical it
can be to build applications with MongoDB. In addition to these
essential topics, you will also learn and work
with useful MongoDB tools and services. Especially, you will
work with MongoDB Atlas, our database as a
service, MongoDB Compass, our schema visualization
tool, as well as many other useful
command line utilities. This course is for newcomers
to the MongoDB family, so no prior MongoDB
expertise is expected. That said, we do have some
technical requirements that you should be aware of. We will be expecting you
to know about Python, the most beautiful
language in the world. This is the language of choice
throughout this specialization. We will ask you to have
Python 3 environments set up in your workstation. Finally, I just want
to welcome you again to this first course on MongoDB. We hope that you enjoy the
material we prepared for you, and we wish you
the best of luck. And I'll see you in class.