Now let's view the data we just loaded. For this and
a number of other tasks in this course, MongoDB Compass is the best option. Compass is a GUI client for MongoDB
that enables you to view databases, filter data using queries,
modify data as needed and much more. To download Compass,
let's visit the MongoDB Download Center. I will just Google for it here. Click the Compass tab, and make sure
you select the right distribution for your operating system. I'm running on a Mac, so I will
download the latest version for OSX. Once downloaded, go ahead and
install compass. It should launch upon install, but in case it doesn't,
just use Spotlight to launch it. Compass should launch once
installed on Windows, but in case it doesn't,
just click search and type compass. Once launched, you'll see
a connect screen similar to this. Now, Compass is actively developed, so
exactly what you see in the Compass UI might differ from what it
is as I record this video. To connect to your free tier cluster,
visit the cluster page for your Atlas account. Click Connect, and
click Connect Your Application. Go ahead and copy the URL connection
string, and then go back to Compass. You should see a model that
asks you whether you want to use the connection string you just copied
to connect Compass to MongoDB cluster. Go there and do this. Compass will populate nearly all
the fields in the connection form. You just need to type the password for
our analytics user. Remember, that is analytics-password. Now, all of the details you
need to fill in this form are included in the lecture notes for
this lesson. So don't worry if Compass didn't pop up the model asking you if you simply wanted
to copy in what was in the clipboard. At the very bottom of the connect form,
enter Analytics Free-Tier, and click Create Favorite, so that you can easily reconnect to your
free-tier atlas cluster at any time. Now, I'll click Connect, and you'll see
that I'm presented with three databases. The admin and
local databases are created by default and are used by MongoDB for
internal bookkeeping. The database we created when we
loaded data set using Mongo import is called mflix. Click mflix. You then see that the mflix
database contains one collection called movies_initial with
46,014 documents in it. In MongoDB, documents are like
Rose in a relational database. And documents are organized
together in collections. Much in the same way that Rose make
up tables in a relational database. Each document in a collection
is a distinct record. In the movies_initial collection,
each document stores data for one movie. Now click movies_initial. In the documents view that loads, you can scroll through
the documents in this collection. Note the fields and
basic shape of the documents. In the coming lessons, we'll be doing some
data cleaning and reshaping of the schema in order to better enable
an application and analytics. For example, note that the genre
field is a simple string containing a comma
separated list of genres. This makes it difficult to partition
documents based on the genre. We'll do something about that
in a number of other fields.