[MUSIC] In this module, we are touching
the basics of particle acceleration and detection metals. And in this video, we'll continue our
discussion of particle detection, the techniques, talking about
scintillators and Cherenkov detectors. After watching this video, you will know
the principle of particle detection by scintillation light, and the measurements
that can be done via the Cherenkov effect. In scintillation detectors,
also called more simply scintillators, particles are detected by means
of their luminescence mechanism. Certain materials,
when exposed to radiation, absorb energy, which is then emitted as light. If the light emission occurs soon after
radiation, we call it fluorescence. If it takes more than 100 milliseconds to
emit light, we call it phosphorescence. Scintillation corresponds to fluorescence, after radiation by charged particles,
high energy photons or neutrons. There are two types of scintillating
materials, inorganic materials, for which fluorescence is associated to
intermediate states due to impurities. They have a high atomic number, so
they are well-suited for photon detection. And they can be ceramics,
glasses, liquids, noble gases and crystals, such as
thallium-doped sodium iodide, lead tungstate or bismuth germanate,
also called the BGO. And this is an example
of a bismuth germanate, a BGO crystal, which is quite heavy. Organic materials are the second
type of scintillating materials. And in these, the source of fluorescence
are excited molecular states. They have high hydrogen content, so they
are well suited for neutron detection. They can be crystals, liquids and
doped plastics like this example here. Both have a very short response times,
ranging from nanoseconds for organic scintillators towards 0500
nanoseconds for inorganic ones. A particle traversing a scintillator
excites the atoms of the molecules of the material, which will then return
to their ground state emitting photons. If the material is transparent through
at least a portion of the scintillation wavelength spectrum, the photons
emitted can be collected at the end of the scintillator by a photosensitive
detector, for example, in photomultiplier tube, PMT,
and often to a light guide. The collected light is then
transformed into an electrical signal. The shape of the signal,
which is shown in the plot on the bottom, is characterized by the very short rise
time, typically less than one nanosecond, and then much larger decay time
of the order of 100 nanoseconds. This short rise time makes scintillator
response faster than ionization detectors. That's why they are used
in triggering systems. They have a good efficiency, the energy
needed to create a scintillation photon ranges from 20 electronvolt for
thallium-doped sodium iodide, to a few hundred electron volts for
doped plastic and BGO. Except for low energies,
they are linear, that is, the number of photons is proportional
to the energy deposition. Thus, counting photons allows to
measure the deposited energy d by dx. Often, light guides are used to transport
scintillation light to the photodetector, minimizing losses both by absorption and
leakage. They are used to adapt the shape
of the scintillator cross section to that of the photodetector. And here is an example of a light guide,
so typically the scintillators
will be connected here and the light will be routed
to the photodetector, which will be connected
here at the bottom. In some cases, light guides also
serve to shift the emission spectrum of scintillation light
to better match the spectral sensitivity of the photodetector with
what is called a wavelength shifter. These are materials which
absorb scintillation light and remit it in a different wavelength. In order to minimize light
losses by reflection, light guides as well as scintillators
themselves use total internal reflection. If the incident angle theta of the photon
is larger than a critical angle, theta c, which sine of theta c is equal
to the ratio between the reflecting index in air and
in the scintillator over the light guides, the photon will not escape by reflection
and will reach the photodetector. For plastic,
the critical angle is about 39 degrees. At smaller angles, mirror reflection on a
external reflector like reflective paint, paper or
special foils like liquidity are used. Reflection can be further
reduced using luo gel, with the same reflective
index to join the elements. And here is an example
of scintillator bars, which have painted with white
paint to minimize reflection. And then also connected to
wavelength shifter fibers, which guide the light
to the photodetector, which will be connected here at the top. The wavelength spectrum of photons
emitted by scintillation has an error of distribution around a maximum. For plastic,
the maximum is at 423 nanometers. For thallium-doped sodium
iodide at 430 nanometers. At 480 nanometers for BGO,
and 475 nanometers for cadmium tungstate, as shown in this graph. Also shown is the detection efficiency for a specific photodetector,
a photomultiplier. This quantity is often called
the quantum efficiency. It is optimum in a certain spectral range,
so the photomultiplier must be
adapted to the material used. Sometimes a dopant is added to
the detection material to shift the wavelength and better fit
the photomultiplier sensitivity. The dopant absorbs the scintillation
of photons and quickly, that is in less than one nanosecond,
emits photons with another wavelength. Photon must pass through the scintillator
to reach the photosensitive elements. Some photons will be absorbed on the way. The number of non-absorbed photons
decreases with distance following an exponential distribution, which depends
on the attenuation length of the material, which is generally of
the order of one meter. And this allows to build large
scintillation detectors. The purpose of the photodetector is
to convert scintillation photons to an electrical signal, which can be then processed
electronically after amplification. Here we show a photomultiplier,
where the conversion of photons into an electrical signal is achieved
via the photoelectric effect in a thin layer of alkali metal
alloy called photocathode. The quantum efficiency measures the number of photoelectrons created
per incident photon. For modern photocathodes,
this is typically 30, 40%, depending on the wavelength, as shown in
this plot for two different photocathodes. Behind the photocathode is
a series of electrodes, typically 10 to 14, called dynodes. They contain a particular alloy
with low ionization energy. An increasing electrical
potential is applied. The photoelectrons emitted by
the photocathode are accelerated and focalized on the first dynode. They release, typically between two and five electrons per photoelectron,
depending on the applied voltage. The signal amplification progresses
from line to dynode, and the total gain can reach 10
million after 14 dynodes. And here is an example of a photo tube with metal dynodes. Another type of photodetector
implements dynodes as grades like in this example
of a metal mesh photo tube, which you see is much more compact then
the photo tube with metal dynodes. So let's now see how the Cherenkov
effect an be used to detect particles. A charged particles of velocity
v going through a medium of refractive index n will
polarize the atom along its path. These atoms become electric dipoles and emit electromagnetic radiation upon
returning to the ground state. If the velocity of the particle does
not exceed that of light in the medium, radiation of the dipoles of the upstream
and downstream sides are about to cancel. If on the contrary, the velocity of
the particle v is larger than c over n, where c is the velocity of the light
in a vacuum and n is the reflective index of the medium, the downstream
material cannot be polarized. The electromagnetic field created
by the particle propagates less quickly than the particle itself and
the net radiation results its waveform to form the cone of light,
around the part or the particle. This is the Cherenkov effect. This kind of radiation is produced
in all transparent media. The energy loss by Cherenkov
radiation is negligible. There are mechanical analogies
to this mechanism, which is like a boat in the water or a plane which
exceeds the velocity of mach one. The additional threshold
is then a bit larger than the inverse of the refractive
index of the medium. A threshold of radiation is emitted
in the direction of the particle that is at theta equal to 0. The different threshold for charged
particles with different masses can be spread to differences between them for
reason to identify different isotopes. Particles heavier than m max
will not emit radiation. Ring imaging Cherenkov,
go the reach, go a step further. Here the Cherenkov light is
intercepted by a detection surface. Photons form a ring, which allows to
measure Cherenkov light angle, and thus determine the velocity
of the incoming particle. In addition, the intensity of
the Cherenkov light, that is the number of photons in the circle, is proportional
to the square of the particle charge. Cherenkov light is also emitted in water. This gives the possibility of
build a large mass detector like the Super-Kamiokande in Japan. This gigantic water tank,
surrounded by photomultipliers, is used to detect neutrinos. In the next video, we will see how
the different detectors are combined to form spectrometers and calorimeters. [MUSIC]