[music] in this module we will be conveying the essential aspects of archiving digital data.
it's important that we cover the topic in detail because simply storing data on a cd, or even in the cloud, is not the same as archiving data.
to ensure that data are accessible and usable over the long-term, data requires specific strategies to preserve their authenticity and integrity, something a trustworthy repository can provide.
at the end of this lesson, you will be able to understand the preservation needs of research data, distinguish between concepts of authenticity and integrity, and recognize the different types of metadata and their roles in data discovery and reuse.
preservation of digital data is especially important because data is a valuable resource and can be at risk if not properly preserved.
a key aspect of both successfully managing and sharing data is ensuring the data will be available for future use.
however, data present real challenges for several reasons due to the nature of digital objects and the heterogeneity of data.
some of the major risks associated with losing digital data include benign neglect, bit rot, obsolescence, and insufficient documentation.
data loss due to benign neglect is the result of not having an active strategy in place for long-term preservation.
without an active preservation strategy, there are no guarantees that your data will be usable years later, or when others need it.
the ability to use data in digital form is contingent upon layers of technology, to access, read, and render the data from physical storage media.
without you knowing it, data over time are subject to degradation.
this brings us to bit rot.
digital data are represented as bits, or units of machine-readable information.
these bits may degrade or become corrupted over time, which we refer to as bit rot.
this perceived rot may cause decreased, delayed, or faulty rendering of the data.
in addition, the physical media on which the data are stored, may also gradually decay.
even if the data or the physical storage media have not experienced any deterioration, there is still a risk to data loss due to obsolescence.
with perpetual advancements in technology, software and hardware eventually become obsolete as time progresses.
consider the researcher who has his or her research saved on a 5.5" floppy disk.
because this storage medium is rarely supported today, if at all, the data could be lost, effectively trapped on a floppy disk.
likewise, if she saved these data in a proprietary file format, then the software company that developed it decided to discontinue its support for that file format, her data may have become unreadable.
an act of preservation strategy would include approaches to avoid obsolescence, such as constant monitoring of changes in technology, migration of files to current formats, and normalization of files to non-proprietary formats.
still, if the data are sound and the technology is current, there is yet another potential cause of data loss.
insufficient documentation presents a risk to long-term data preservation.
a lack of complete and appropriate documentation and metadata can make it impossible to interpret the data in the future.
without a codebook, that contains variable and value labels, we're left with data that are essentially meaningless and unusable.
the addition of questionnaires, methodology reports, codebooks, and descriptive metadata, alongside the data, are essential for ensuring the data continue to be useful in the future.
[music]
