[SOUND]. Hi, welcome back to the video
lectures on web connectivity and security in cyber-physical systems. This lesson starts the second
part of the course. This part includes two modules, and it's dedicated to system security
issues and their solutions. We will learn about different
security technologies and methods and learn how to utilize these in securing and protecting cyber physical
systems against cyber attacks. In this video lecture, we will look into basic security
requirements of cyber physical systems. Several physical systems facilitate
a wide range of solutions and services that help people
in their daily lives. However, providing these solutions and
services in a reliable safe and secure manner is not at all trivial. On the contrary, there are many challenging issues that
need to be appropriately addressed. For example, dealing with sensitive or
safety-critical data, if this data is not properly protected,
can lead to significant financial losses, loss of privacy or reputation,
mental suffering or physical damage. It could even endanger lives. So, among issues and
challenges involved in design and deployment of cyber physical systems,
security has a very important role. Cyber physical systems have their
own specific security issues. This is because of their
special characteristics. First of all,
as they are involving physical processes, they are tightly coupled with
their physical environments. So any changes in their environments, especially on expected changes that
haven't been considered at design time will affect them, and potentially make
them more vulnerable to security breaches. This is true the other way around as well. Security breaches in
cyber-physical systems can have serious influence
on their environments. Second, cyber-physical systems can be
composed of a very large number of different devices with different
computing platforms and capabilities. In general, most devices in cyber physical
systems are resource constrained, meaning that they don't
have much processing, storage, or power capacity to
execute complex operations. This poses challenges for
applying efficient security counter-measures that may require
a relatively high amount of resources. Third, cyber-physical systems can
be massively networked systems. They can use various
communication technologies between devices ranging from
simple wired connections to different wireless technologies with
different ranges and characteristics. So they can be highly complex and heterogeneous systems making it
harder to find optimal solutions to ensure secure transmission of
data everywhere in the system. Finally, cyber physical
systems are typically highly autonomous with embedded
intelligence controlling many operations. This reduces the need for
manual control and supervision. Which on one hand is an advantage, because
the risk for human error is reduced. On the other hand, the user must be
able to rely on the autonomous system to be protected against malicious
attacks that aim to secretly alter the behavior of the system, or
to steal sensitive information. In general, we can classify
the security requirements of cyber physical systems into several categories. In a system, which interacts
with a physical environment, validity and
accuracy of sensed data is very important. So, proper protection of sensors and their data is of high
importance in such a system. Data collected from multiple sensors
needs to be store temporarily. Malicious unauthorized modification of
this stored data results in errors and is further processing and
can have serious consequences. For this reason, the data while
in storage needs to be protected against any unauthorized access and
modification. In some large cyber physical systems, the data may be collected from
a very large group of sensors over some time period resulting in a very
large set of data or beak data. The more data you have
the more complex and difficult it is to
properly secure this data. Many cyber physical systems
are networked and distributed. Sensitive data is transmitted through
heterogeneous communication channels. Communication security is needed
within a system and between systems. We will discuss different communication
security protocols in other video lectures. In a system which carries out autonomous
operations through its actuators, it is of key importance to make sure
that all actuations are authorized and according to the latest
policies of the system. Feedback loops play an important role
in cyber physical system control. A system's embedded intelligence and ability to learn are largely based
on feedback of its actuations. Therefore the feedback data needs to
be appropriately protected against tampering attempts. Finally, the system may have some
application specific security requirements, depending on the nature of
the applications running in the system. Cyber physical systems have both
physical and cyber aspects that need to be taken into account when
designing security counter measures. In developing security solutions for
cyber physical systems, we need to keep in mind that
attacks can also be indirect meaning that they can aim to
affect the physical environment in such a way that data coming
from sensors is corrupted and misleading resulting in unexpected
behavior or even system failure. The system needs to be designed to
detect abnormal physical conditions, and act in a safe way in these situations. Also, the system should always be
protected against physical tampering whenever possible. Security counter measures
must be considered in the design phase of
a cyber physical system. Security by design means
designing the system as free of vulnerabilities and
resistant against attacks as possible. This can be achieved by continuous
testing and careful design of rigorous authentication solutions and hardware and
software components of the system. In this lesson, we discussed different security
requirements of cyber-physical systems. In the next video lecture,
we will learn more about the key security concepts in
cyber-physical systems. [SOUND]