[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to our introductory
course on subatomic physics brought to you by University of Geneva. During this first module, we will give an
overview of the objects that are treated by particle physics, namely matter,
forces and space-time. We will also discuss how one goes
about to characterize the strength of a reaction between particles with
the concept of the cross section. Which is a central issue of our subject. At the end of the module, we will visit the laboratory of the
nuclear physics course at University of Geneva to see a small example of
how all of this works in practice. In this first video, we will take a quick tour of the elements
of matter at the subatomic level. After having watched this video, you
should know quarks and leptons by name and a few of their fundamental properties. You should be able to assign these
constituents to families and generations. And you should know the quantum numbers
which are conserved in interactions among these particles. We are interested in this course in
the subatomic structure of matter. Here is a schematic picture
of the components of an atom. Of course it is not to scale otherwise,
the nucleus would be completely invisible. The atom consists of a positively charged
nucleus of small size of the order of ten to the minus fourteen meters in the
surrounding electron cloud which is about ten thousand times larger that is to say,
ten to the minus ten meters in radius and negatively charged. For all we know, the electron is
an elementary particle, without internal structure and probably without size.
It belongs to the family of leptons. Electrons and the nucleus are bound
together by the electromagnetic force. The nucleus on the other hand,
is not elementary. It contains protons and neutrons
bound together by the nuclear force. We will talk about the physics of
the atomic nucleus in the next module. Protons and
neutrons are not elementary either. They contain quarks bound
together by the strong force. As far as we can tell today, quarks are equally elementary in
the same sense as electrons are. But be careful, all of this
describes just 5% of the universe, the rest is dark matter and dark energy,
and we will introduce you to these two forms of matter and
energy in module number eight. One can assign quarks and leptons to
families according to their properties, and to generations according to
their mass as shown in this table. The lepton families are shown on the left. All charged leptons have similar
properties as the electron, which is the most well-known
member of this family. The electric charge is minus one
elementary charge. The neutral leptons, the neutrinos,
are produced in radioactive decays. They have zero electric charge and
they're very small mass. The quarks families are shown
on the right of this table. These are the constituents of proton and
neutron and of all particles which we call hadrons. There are also two types. The up-type quarks have an electric
charge of 2/3 of the elementary charge, the down-type quarks
have a charge of -1/3e. Every family has three generations, almost
identical copies of the first one, but a lot heavier than the first one. In the first generation,
we find the familiar electron, the light neutrino nu_L,
the quarks up and down u and d, these are the constituents of
the ordinary matter around us today. The second generation, has the muon µ,
the medium mass neutrino nu_M, the charm quark and
the strange quark, c and s. And finally, in the third
generation we find the tau lepton, the heavy neutrino nu_H,
the top and bottom quarks, t and b. There is a quantum number
which is called flavor which distinguishes between
the generations inside each family. It is conserved by all interactions
except the weak interactions. The range of masses in this table is very,
very large. Neutrinos are the lightest matter particles. Their masses are found
experimentally to be below two electron volts but they are probably rather in
the range of milli electron volts meV. We will talk about them in Module 6,
which covers weak interactions. The top quark has a mass
as large as a Hafnium nucleus. The Hafnium nucleus has
an atomic number 178 and 72 positive electric charges. But as far as we know the top quark
is a point-like particle like all the others in this table. With these constituents we can
implement an order scheme, a descriptive nomenclature,
à la Liné. We call hadrons
all particles which contain quarks. They are sensitive to strong and
nuclear reactions, leptons are not. Baryons are bound states
formed by three quarks. Mesons contain a quark and an anti-quark. And the two together form
what we call hadrons. The nucleons p and n are the lightest baryons. They form the atomic
nuclei we find around us. And particles like the pion are the
lightest mesons formed by quarks and anti-quarks. There are no hadrons including a top
quark because of it's short lifetime. This quark decays before it can ever
form a bound state with any others. Leptons on the right of this
table are elementary in the sense that they are not composed of
other particles for all we know. Observations are compatible with them
having no size, they are thus point-like and so are the quarks. But not the hadrons. We will often see the neutrinos, nu_e,
nu_mu and nu_tau in tables of this sort. I don't adhere to this. These particles, nu_e, nu_mu and nu_tau
are mixtures of the true particles with a specific mass which we denote by nu_L,
nu_M and nu_H in this course. Ww thus respect their mass hierarchy and
assign them to their respective generations according to that property
like we do for all other particles. The enormous strength of
the strong force binds together, quarks to form very stable bound states. To be sensitive to the strong force, particles need to have the necessary
charge, which is called color charge. Quarks do have color charge,
leptons do not. This leads to a whole zoology of
hadrons as shown in this summary table. The Particle Data Group is responsible
to collect all the data concerning their properties, an exhaustive list of states as well as a summary of the known
properties is available on the site of the Particle Data Group quoted in
red on the bottom of the slide. On the left you see a list of
baryons containing three quarks. Like the proton which
is a uud bound state. And the neutron which
is a dud bound state. On the right is a list of meson formed
by quarks, quark anti-quark pairs, like the positive pion
which is a u-dbar bound state. Leptons are not sensitive to the strong
force because they do not carry the necessary color charge. They 
intreact only, via the electromagnetic and weak forces and do not form long lasting
bound states among themselves. Here's a table summarizing some important
properties of elementary particles. In the upper half of the table you
find the constituents of matter. Leptons and quarks are of
spin one half as you can see. In the lower half you find
particles that transmit forces. These are bosons of integer spin. The charges are indicated in units of
an elementary charge for each one of them, like the one of the electron in
the case of the electric charge. Here we say that its charge
is -1 which means that it is -1 times the elementary charge, e. The weak charge is called weak isospin and
it has two components in contrast to the electromagnetic
charge which has only one component. We denote them by T and T3, the total length of the weak isospin and
its third component. This charge depends on the orientation of
the spin of the particle with respect to its direction of motion, which means
it depends on the helicity of the particle. The strong charge has three components. It's called color, and we use the
abbreviation r for red, g for green, and b for blue to denote them. Color is a property of quarks and of gluons where the latter even carry
a color and an anti-color simultaneously. For every particle, there's an
anti-particle which has the same mass but all charges opposite,
as indicated in this red table. Charges are additive quantum numbers. For a system of particles
the total charge is the sum of the charges of its constituents. But there are other quantum
numbers that are conserved. The first one quoted here is
the total number of baryons, i.e. the number of baryons minus
the number of anti baryons in a system. This number is conserved, this applies in particular to quarks
which have a baryon number of 1/3, and anti-quarks which have
a baryon number of minus 1/3. The total lepton number, the number
of leptons minus the number of antileptons is also constant
in a closed system. To a certain extent this is even
true generation by generation but the neutrinos which show up here,
nu_e, nu_mu and nu_tau are mixtures of the true particles,
nu_L, nu_M and nu_H. So, there's some mixture between
generations in weak interactions. But more important than that, the charges of all types are rigorously
conserved as far we know. This evidently concerns the electric
charge Q that you are familiar with but also the weak isospin T and T3, and the color charges R, G, and B. The flavor which distinguishes
between generations is a special case. It is conserved by the strong and
electromagnetic interactions but can be altered by the weak one. We will define what it exactly
means to conserve a quantum number when we discuss Feynman diagrams,
in Part 1.5, first of this module, and
then later in Video 4.1a. In the next video Mercedes
will introduce in more detail the forces which interact
between matter particles. [MUSIC]