[MUSIC] In this module we are in the process of discussing
the basics of particle acceleration and particle detection. In this video, we will demonstrate
how photons interact with matter. At the end of this video, you will know
the mechanisms by which they are detected, namely, the photoelectric effect,
Compton scattering and pair production. In these processes, the photon is either
absorbed or scattered by a wide angle. Most of the photons in a beam
keep their original energy, but their flux is diminished. A photon beam will thus be
attenuated rather than lose energy. The probability of an interaction in
a given target thickness is a constant, proportional to the cross
section of the process. This leads to an exponential decrease
of the intensity of a photon beam as a function of absorber thickness. We've already calculated an example
of this in the optional video 1.3a. Photons are detected by interactions
which produce charged particles. The photoelectric effect is the absorption
of a photon by an atomic electron, dominant between the ionization energy of an atom
and about 100kV of photon energy. Compton scattering is the elastic
scattering of a photon off a quasi-free atomic electron, dominant around photon
energies roughly 1 MeV. Pair production is the conversion of
a photon into an electron-positron pair in the electromagnetic field of
typically of a nucleus, dominant for photon energies much larger
than 1 MeV. We will discuss these processes
one by one in what follows. In the photoelectric process, the atomic electron is released
when the atom absorbs the photon. Its kinetic energy is then the difference
between the photon energy and the ionization energy. This latter one depends on the shell
where the electron was and is typically between and
1 and 25 electron volts. The photoelectric process is
not feasible for a free electron. It would violate conservation of momentum. If the photon energy
is larger than the K shell energy, the cross section is dominated
at the level of roughly 80% by the absorption of K shell electrons, since the proximity of the nucleus
eases absorption of the recoil energy. Sigma_Th, in this formula, is the standard
cross-section of Thompson scattering, it sets the scale of this cross section. The dependence on the atomic
charge to the fifth power and the photon energy to
the power -7/2 favors the photoelectric process for
low energy photons in heavy materials. At high energies in
the relativistic limit, the energy dependence
becomes simply 1/E_gamma. The vacancy opened by
the photoelectric effect can be filled by another electron of an upper shell,
say the L shell for example. This will result in either the emission
of an X-ray with energy E_l- E_k or the emission of an Auger electron, if the available energy is greater than
the ionization energy for higher shells. In Compton scattering, dominant at
intermediate energies around 1 MeV, a photon is scattered off a quasi-free electron. The cross section is given by the
Klein-Nishima formula which is obtained by quantum electrodynamics that
we'll discuss in module 4. The energy of the scattered electron is
maximum when the scattering angle is 90 degrees with a maximum electron
energy that is given by the formula on the bottom of this page. The Compton scattering cross section is typically about 0.1 barn
in the forward direction. For backward scattering,
it varies between 0.1 barn at low energies and 0.04 barn at 100 keV. At high energy, the process is thus dominated
by scattering in the forward direction. In the electromagnetic field of a nucleus, the photon can convert into
an electron-positron pair. The energy threshold is essentially
twice the mass of the electron with a small correction for the
recoil fo the nucleus. This process cannot take place in vacuum
because of energy-momentum conservation, but little energy is transmitted to the
nucleus, about 1 MeV for heavy nuclei. At low and
modest energies the cross-section per atom is given in terms of the radiation length. This is the same length as the one
we defined in video 3.5, i.e, the length after which an electron loses
all but 1/e its energy by bremsstrahlung. In this image, taken with a historical
bubble chamber, we see the tracks left by charged particles as small
bubbles formed in an overheated liquid. The chamber is immersed in a magnetic
field octagonal to the projection plane, which deflects the trajectories. This is an atypical process in that
a photon enters from the left and converts into an electron positron pair
in the field of an atomic electron and not in the field of a nucleus. This produces what is called a trident. These are the three charged particle tracks you see
attached to the left vertex. The pair particles lose
their energy in the liquid, their trajectories are the spirals
that you see on the left. The atomic electron takes an appreciable
recoil energy because of it's small mass. Its stiff track goes to the right
with very little curvature. About halfway,
the electron emits a bremsstrahlung photon, which in turn converts into
an electron-positron pair. You see this pair by the V-shaped
tracks on the right. The cross-section for pair production
becomes almost independent of the photo energy above
an energy of about 1 GeV and then depends only on the material,
that is to say on X_0. The conversion probability per unit
distance is inversely proportional to the radiation length. The mean free path for
a photon before it converts is the inverse of this probability and
thus 9/7 of a radiation length. The busy plot on the right shows
the summary of the contributions of all processes to the photon
total cross section in metal. Among this the most important ones are the
photoelectric effect at low energies and pair production at high energies In between around 1 MeV, at
the minimum of the cross section, Compton scattering dominates
over other processes. At high energy, as we have seen at
energies above 1 GeV, electrons and positrons lose their energy almost
exclusively by bremsstrahlung. Photons convert to electrons and
positrons by pair production. The two phenomena have the same
characteristic length, the radiation length. The successive combination
of these two effects results in the formation of what is
called an electromagnetic shower. Whenever an electron, positron or photon of high
energy enters into a medium, it will cause such a shower. A simulation is shown on the right. Again, each black dot corresponds
to a unit of energy loss. In the next video, we will see how ionization detectors
measure the passage of charged particles. [MUSIC]