And next topic is flower modeling. This is an example of very domain specific
modeling operations. And the work we introduce here is called
floral diagrams and inflorescences. The program we present here, discuss here
is flower modeling, and the flower modeling
is very difficult. It has very complicated geometry. With you know, petals and [UNKNOWN], and also, at the same time, complicated
structure. So, again, each element has complicated
shape, and also we have a very complicated arrangement of
interior elements. So that's a program we want to address. And our approach is like this, for
complicated geometry we use very specialized sketching
interfaces for all our elements. For hunting a complicated structure we again, provide a very specialized
structure editor. By combing a very specialized system we
can make it very much easier for the user to design various
kinds of flowers. Let me show you a video. So here's a program we would try to
address. You know, this kind of flower diagram, a
flower more that it consists of many small
elements obligated together. And then we have complete skeleton
structure like this one, I like this one. [BLANK_AUDIO] And then what we do is use a traditional
art of presentation called floral diagrams, and inflorescences as an
interface for designing our flowers in the computer. [BLANK_AUDIO] So floral diagram, defines arrangements of
elements for individual flower. [BLANK_AUDIO] Inflorescences defines an arrangement or group of flowers in this model. And you see the user interactivity
operates the diagram, and then you continuously see this updated
to your directory [BLANK_AUDIO] And the modeling process start with the
defining of a floral diagram. So in the flower base you arrange
individual elements, and then you can see a 3-D measure preview
here. [BLANK_AUDIO] So as you see, this is a very specialized dedicated weathering
system for flower arrangements. [BLANK_AUDIO] After our getting a diagram, now, the user
defines a geometry. As you see, we provide a very, very simple
sketching interface for defining a shape. But here, system will carry [UNKNOWN] off
a resolution. And for each, for our element, our system provides a various indicated
sketching apparatus. So this is why in is initiating a pulse. [BLANK_AUDIO] And then this is texture modeling, so you
draw three lines. And then you get this after you get the
3-D model. And from the side view the user draws a
line, and you get a different shape. So with just only four strokes, you will
get a very huge form of flower element. And you can continuously add more and more
strokes, to get more detailed shape. And then after having drawn a diagram and 3D components, you establish
correspondences, or associations, and then with some
information assistance, start to generate an
aggregated composition. And then you will get, beautiful shape. Now we assemble them together into a,
structure using infrared tendencies. You get this template, and then you change
the shape, and then you label the shape. And now we define axis, center axis by
sketching. This is an interesting part, so you draw
two dimensional stroke to define axis, and then system generates 3D
minimum axis that we see. This is the last stroke, and then as the user draw, system would generate 3D
dimensional axis. And sometimes you finish drawing you can
rotate and you will get the reasonable 3D shape. [BLANK_AUDIO] Yeah, so here's a little bit more description about 2D input to 3D stalk
part. So without depth assignment if you project
your input onto a flat surface it looks unnatural, a very
flat shape. However, with our algorithm. User draws a stroke, two-dimensional
stroke, and the system automatically assigns a
natural, naturally looking depth variation, so if you look from, look from a sideway, it looks
natural. So to do this, what we do is assume that three-dimensional curvature is always
constant in 3-D space. Is this assumption we can look into the
computer depths. And then her are a couple results. I think it is very tedious and
time-consuming to generate these types of models using traditional 3D
general purpose modeling systems. But with our system, it's very, much, much
faster. Of course, it takes certain time, but it's
much faster than using creation method. And you can easily modify them. [BLANK_AUDIO] Yup, that's it. And then, here are a couple examples. These are 3D shapes and these are the
structure editors. And then here let me briefly describe the
other [UNKNOWN] 2D stroke to 3D shape. So as I said the basic assumption. The main idea is to assume constant
curvature in 3-D space. Which means second derivatives, exposition
of second derivative of zed, z positions by y value, is the
constant. Y is a growth direction. See here again, this is two-dimensional
input on X-Y plane. Y is a growth direction, and x is sideways
vectors and then we compute, we try to compute z
values in this way. So you don't have passed the project
stroke onto x y plane and resample. So we put the sample points here, and then we suppose that 3D curvature is
constant so. Second derivative of X along Y and second
derivative zero Y equal constant. And we know this volume by this shape. We also will assume this constant body by maximum of this volume, we summarized
here. Maximum curvature. And here. The curvature in X-Y plane gets smaller
here. But instead we at, assign large value
here, which means large curvature in three
directions, and here. So this is given value, and this is given
value, and you get this value. And after get this values secondary letter
Z, just integrate twice, and then you will get the variable, so
that is the algorithm. So to learn more, the original paper can
be found in SIGGRAPH 2005 titled Floral
Diagrams and Inflorescences. Interacting from our modeling using our
botanical structure research. Now, interactive modeling has a long
history of research, and one famous book is called
The Algorithmic Beauty of Plants, and this one
discusses some really interesting techniques using
model based systems. So here is a, one, example, you draw this
kind of synthesis, and you will get this kind of very complicated structure, and this is very beautiful
mathematical system. However, it is a little bit unintuitive
for our artists to design more of them. So this, this entry people use this kind
of graphical rule editor to generate a 3D
shape like this. And this, and this paper about the paper titled, Modeling Methods and User
Interface for Creating Plants, was currently available as a modeling system
called XFrog. This is a very popular tool. If you are interested in this modeling I
suggest you take a look at these systems