[music] given what we've done so far we  can differentiate a bunch of functions.
we can differentiate sums and differences  and products.
but what about quotients.
given a fraction i'd like to be able to  differentiate that fraction.
i like to be able to differentiate a  really complicated looking function like  f(x)=2x+1/x^2+1, for instance.
but we're stuck immediately because we  don't have anyways to differentiate  quotients, until now.
here's the the quotient rule so to state  this really precisely let's suppose i got  two functions f and g and then i define a  new function that i'm just going to call  h for now.
h(x) is this quotient f(x) over g(x).
now i also want to make sure that the  denominator isn't 0 at the point a so it  makes sense to evaluate this function at  the point a.  and i want ot assume that f and g are  differential at the point a.  and i'm trying to understand how h  changes so i'm going to need to know how  f and g change when the input wiggles a  bit.
alright so given all this set up, then i  can tell you what the derivative of the  quotient is, the derivative of the  quotient at a is the denominator at a  times the derivative of the numerator at  a.  minus the numerator at a times the  derivative of the denominator at a, all  divided by the denominator at a^2.
let's use the quotient rule to  differentiate the function that we saw  earlier.
so, the function we were thinking about  is f(x)=2x+1/ x^2+1.
i want to calculate the derivative of  that, with respect to x.  now the derivative of this quotient is  given to us by the quotient rule.
it's just the denominator times the  derivative of the numerator minus the  numerator times the derivative of the  denominator.
that's all divided by the denominator  squared.
now, i've calculated the derivative of  this quotient in terms of the derivatives  of the numerator and denominator.
so we can simplify this further,  x^2+1 times the derivative of this sum is  the sum of the derivatives.
it's the derivative of 2x + the  derivative of 1-2x+1 times at again, the  derivative of a sum, so the derivative of  x^2, with respect to x plus the  derivative of 1.  and it's all divided by the denominator,  the original denominator squared.
i can keep going,  i've got x^2+1 times what's the  derivative of 2x?
it's just 2.  what's the derivative of this constant?
zero, minus 2x+1 times, what's the  derivative of x^2?
it's 2x,  and what's the derivative of 1?
it's the  derivative of a constant zero, all  divided by x^2+1^2.
so, this is the derivative of the  original function we're considering,  there's no more differentiation to be  done and we did it using the quotient  rule.
we've done a ton of work on  differentiation so far, we differentiate  sums, differences, products, now  quotients.
what sorts of functions can we  differentiate using all of these rules?
well, here's one big collection.
if you've got a polynomial divided by  polynomial, these things are called  rational functions.
sort of an analogy with rational numbers  which are integers over integers.
a polynomial over a polynomial is by  analogy, being called a rational  function.
now, since this is just a quotient of two  things you can differentiate, you can  differentiate these rational functions.
this is a huge class of functions that  you can now differentiate.
[music] i encourage you to practice with  the quotient rule.
with some practice, you'll be able to  differentiate any rational function that  we can throw at you.
[music]  [music]
