we've seen what happens when we  differentiate the accumulation function.
that's the fundamental theorem of  calculus.
if i take the derivative of the integral  from a to b of f of x dx, well what do i  get?
well, it's just f.  of b, right?
the rate of the change of the  accumulation function is the functions  value.
but, what would happen if i were to  differentiate with respect to the left  hand end point instead of with respect to  the right hand end point?
by which i mean.
what's the derivative with respect to a  of the integral from a to b of f of x dx.
right.
what happens if instead of diferentiating  with respect to the top end point, i'm  diferentiating with respect to the bottom  end point?
i'm asking how is this function as a  function of a changing?
let's think about the graph.
let's draw my coordinate axes.
and i'll draw some random looking  function.
and i'll pick some points a and b.  and the integral from a to b calculates  the area in here.
and i want to know how does that integral  change when i wiggle a?
i'm asking to differentiate the integral  with respect to this.
left-hand endpoint.
so let's wiggle the left-hand endpoint.
let's move it over a little bit to a plus  h.  i'm imagining h is very small.
alright, and i want to know, how does the  integral change?
well the quantity that calculates the  absolute change in the integral is this.
what's this thing here?
this is the integral from a plus h to b.  and this thing here is the integral from  a to b, so this difference is telling me  how the integral changes when i replace a  by a plus h.  now if you think about it, what this is  really calculating is, you know, related  to the integral from just a plus h,  right.
this integral is calculating this area,  and subtracting this larger area.
so the difference is really just this  area in here between a and a+h but it  comes with a negative sign because i'm  subtracting this smaller area and i'm  subtracting now this larger area.
so i've got this negative sign here.
now this region, if h is small enough, is  practically a rectangle, and it's  practically a rectangle of width h and  height let's say f of a.  so, that means that this difference is at  least approximately just h times the  function's value at a.  now how does that help?
remember what i'm trying to calculate.
i, i'm trying to differentiate the  interval from a to be with respect to a.  that means i'm trying to take the limit  of this difference quotient.
but the numerator here, we just saw, is  approximately, negative h times f of a.  and that means in the limit i expect to  get an answer of just negative f of a,  alright, these hs will cancel in the  limit, and that's exactly what i hope  for, right?
the derivitive of the integral from a to  b with respect to the left hand endpoint  a is negative f of a.  so i can summarize this.
so i can summarize this.
the derivative with respect to a of the  integral from a to b of f of x dx is  negative f of a.  this fact coheres with a certain  convention about integration.
the convention that we use is that if we  integrate from a to b.  the function f of x dx that's negative  the interval from b to a of f of x dx.
so if you integrate the wrong way, so to  speak, we want to count that as negative  area.
>> now in light of this convention, what do  we know?
>> so d da of the integral from a to b of f  of x dx is d da of this, negative the  integral from b to a of f of x dx.
but now this is the derivative of the top  end point which is just the usual  fundamental theorem of calculus.
so this is negative f of a.  so the upshot here is that  differentiating the integral from a to b,  with respect to the left hand or bottom  end point, is negative the function's  value.
and that make sense because if you  increase the left hand endpoint that  decreases the area.
alright, so it seems reasonable that a  negative sign should be popping up there.
and the cool thing is that, that fact is  cohering with a convention about  integration.
that compared to integrating the usual  way, if you integrate the wrong way you  introduce a negative sign.
