[SOUND] Welcome to our course on interactive computer graphics. This is our course introduction. Let me first describe, what we mean by
interactive computer graphics. First this is not about real time rendering, this course is about
interaction [NOISE] and specifically we discuss
interactive techniques and systems for visual problem
solving. So not. Let me describe what we mean by visual
problem solving. So visual problem solving we mean, visual,
all visual aspects of human intelligence. And I think visual problems consist of
three parts. First you have to understand incoming
information, and then you have to come up with a solution about the problem and then you
have to communicate the idea to the other
people. And this kind of visual problem solving appears everywhere in most professional
and daily activities. Such as, for example, medical doctors plan
surgical operations, or coaches teach how to play
sports. And product designers, architects, design
products and buildings. And costume designers design garments. And then a scientist trying to understand
nature. And all these activities involve intensive
visual problem solving. And our goal is to make these processes more efficient, productive and pleasant
using computer technique. Technologies. Leveraging interactive computer,
interactive computing. Let me know describe what we mean by
interactive computing. So let me compare interactive computing
with old style command based interaction. So old style interaction is command based,
so user gives command to a system and then system does a
task. And then user sees a result. And this is kind of asking a computer, do
something. But Interactive Computing we mean more
like an augmentation of human activities, like
this. So user continuously walks on a program, and then system continuous
provides feedback. So this is the kind of walking stair we
want to emphasize in this course. So Interactive Computing is to augment
human intelligence by providing rich feedback in very rapidly
and very fast. And so it continuously sup provide
feedback. And the, it accepts intuitive input, and
then provide intuitive feedback. And then behind the scenes, it should,
tries to do some intelligent computation. And in this course, the students will now
know how to do, using an IOS system. So let me explain the course in the
broader context of computer science. The computer science field is roughly
divided into 2 fields. Theoretical field. And the applied view. And among the applied view, our course is
related to sub-fields called graphics and visualization, and human-computer
interaction. And, so this course can be seen as an introduction to these computer
science sub-fields. And let me show you a couple topics we
discuss in this course. So first we will discuss influence to
uh,to additional graphical user interface. So we will describe how to implement window operations, scrolling, icon
manipulation and so on. And then we me, move on to 2D drawings. So, we, we'll have you how to draw restorations and then also how to move
them. And then next week is 3D modeling. So, we will describe how to create 3D
objects using 2 dimensional input devices. And then we would discuss how to handle
deformation and animation objects such as closing and
lobes and also flexible. [COUGH]
rebs object. And then in the last three weeks we, we
move out of the screen space and then go to the
real world. So we first discuss how to create physical object out of a three-dimensional model in
a computer. And then we will discuss how to leverage physical simulation to produce
functional products. And then finally we will describe
introduction techniques that work with our computers or systems interacting in
the real world such as robots. And this course is basically a case-based learning so each lecture introduce example
or systems. And then, exercise help you obtain deeper,
lasting, understanding about the topic. But of course these are just sample examples among many, many infinite
possibilities. And they are just studying points for
further exploration. So at the end of each topic, I will show information and the point is for
further research. Further study by yourself. So in this course throughout these
examples students learn what we can do and also how we can do it with
interactive computing.