[sound] welcome to our course on interactive computer graphics.
this is our course introduction.
let me first describe, what we mean by interactive computer graphics.
first this is not about real time rendering, this course is about interaction [noise] and specifically we discuss interactive techniques and systems for visual problem solving.
so not.
let me describe what we mean by visual problem solving.
so visual problem solving we mean, visual, all visual aspects of human intelligence.
and i think visual problems consist of three parts.
first you have to understand incoming information, and then you have to come up with a solution about the problem and then you have to communicate the idea to the other people.
and this kind of visual problem solving appears everywhere in most professional and daily activities.
such as, for example, medical doctors plan surgical operations, or coaches teach how to play sports.
and product designers, architects, design products and buildings.
and costume designers design garments.
and then a scientist trying to understand nature.
and all these activities involve intensive visual problem solving.
and our goal is to make these processes more efficient, productive and pleasant using computer technique.
technologies.
leveraging interactive computer, interactive computing.
let me know describe what we mean by interactive computing.
so let me compare interactive computing with old style command based interaction.
so old style interaction is command based, so user gives command to a system and then system does a task.
and then user sees a result.
and this is kind of asking a computer, do something.
but interactive computing we mean more like an augmentation of human activities, like this.
so user continuously walks on a program, and then system continuous provides feedback.
so this is the kind of walking stair we want to emphasize in this course.
so interactive computing is to augment human intelligence by providing rich feedback in very rapidly and very fast.
and so it continuously sup provide feedback.
and the, it accepts intuitive input, and then provide intuitive feedback.
and then behind the scenes, it should, tries to do some intelligent computation.
and in this course, the students will now know how to do, using an ios system.
so let me explain the course in the broader context of computer science.
the computer science field is roughly divided into 2 fields.
theoretical field.
and the applied view.
and among the applied view, our course is related to sub-fields called graphics and visualization, and human-computer interaction.
and, so this course can be seen as an introduction to these computer science sub-fields.
and let me show you a couple topics we discuss in this course.
so first we will discuss influence to uh,to additional graphical user interface.
so we will describe how to implement window operations, scrolling, icon manipulation and so on.
and then we me, move on to 2d drawings.
so, we, we'll have you how to draw restorations and then also how to move them.
and then next week is 3d modeling.
so, we will describe how to create 3d objects using 2 dimensional input devices.
and then we would discuss how to handle deformation and animation objects such as closing and lobes and also flexible.
[cough] rebs object.
and then in the last three weeks we, we move out of the screen space and then go to the real world.
so we first discuss how to create physical object out of a three-dimensional model in a computer.
and then we will discuss how to leverage physical simulation to produce functional products.
and then finally we will describe introduction techniques that work with our computers or systems interacting in the real world such as robots.
and this course is basically a case-based learning so each lecture introduce example or systems.
and then, exercise help you obtain deeper, lasting, understanding about the topic.
but of course these are just sample examples among many, many infinite possibilities.
and they are just studying points for further exploration.
so at the end of each topic, i will show information and the point is for further research.
further study by yourself.
so in this course throughout these examples students learn what we can do and also how we can do it with interactive computing.
