[music].
here's a little puzzle about length.
i've got an isocoles right triangle.
and let's say that both of the legs of  this right triangle have the same length  and we know the length of the hypotenuse  by the pythagroem theorem.
well, that tells us that this length is  the square root of 2.  but let's try to think about this  differently.
what if, instead of a smooth ramp, i made  stairs.
i mean, instead of this ramp picture, i  have a picture like this, right.
a staircase.
what's the length of the staircase.
the total length of the staircase is 2.  to see that, just look at the horizontal  sections of the stairs.
that's the same as the entire bottom  edge.
and the vertical sections of the  staircase is the same as this whole edge.
so 1 plus 1 is 2.  what happens if i make those stairs even  smaller?
the length is still 2.  because again, all of the vertical  sections of the staircase add up to this  length.
and all of the horizontal sections of the  staircase, and i'm[unknown] pushing them  all down, add up to this length.
so, the total length of the staircase is  still 2.  what happens if i make those stairs  really small?
well, even if the stairs are really,  really small, the total length of the  staircase is still 2.  what is going on here?
the length of the ramp is a square root  of 2.  the length of the staircase is 2.  no matter how small i make the stairs,  even if i made each stair the size of a  proton, the staircase would still have  length too.
the point is that even something as  seemingly obvious as length, is more  subtle than i think we give it credit  for.
what we really need is some sort of  definition of length.
we'll do it in terms of an integral.
so just like with volume or with area,  i'm going to take this thing that i'm  interested in, say the length here.
and try to break it up into little pieces  that i'll then add up with an integral.
so let's imagine that i cut this up into  little tiny pieces and that i just  connect these by straight lines.
and then i can just add up the length of  these little tiny straight lines and call  that, in the limit, after i integrate,  the length of this curve.
i want to write down an integral that  captures that intuition.
well, let's just look at one little piece  of this thing here.
let's write a little triangle there so i  can call the change in x dx, and the  change in y dy and what i'm interested in  is how long this little green line  segment is.
well, you might think then that little  green line segment has the length square  root dx squared plus dy squared.
and then you integrate to get the total  arc length, just play around with that a  little bit.
specifically lets imagine pulling a dx  outside of this.
so when i get this is the intergral.
the square root of 1 plus, and if i  factor out a dx here, i have to include a  dx in the denominator there.
and this has the advantage at least of  now looking like the derivative, right,  dy over dx, that's how i've been denoting  the derivative, and this form is the sort  of thing that i can integate.
so here's the formula that we're going to  use.
the arc length from a f of a to b f of b  along the graph of f is the integral x  goes a to b of the square root of 1 plus  the derivative squared and that's exactly  what i saw here dx.
i hope that you're feeling just a little  bit uneasy at this point.
i'm really treating dx and dy as if  they're legitimate mathematical objects,  and you should be a little bit  uncomfortable with that at this point.
