[music] in this sixth module, we are discussing weak interactions.
in this fifth video, we'll talk about the properties of the w bosons, which transmit the charged weak force and are responsible for weak decays.
after following this video, you will know the w couplings to matter and forces.
the mass of the w bosons and the various ways to measure it.
in video 6.3, we already defined the couplings of the w to matter.
and in video 6.4, we have reviewed the method to measure the fermi constant, which applies to processes with q^2 much smaller than the square of the mass of w, and thus defines the intensity of weak interactions at low energy.
so now the question is how to measure the mass of the w boson?
this is done using two different methods  which are of comparable accuracy.
the first method determines the mass by measuring the energy threshold for the production  of w pairs in e+e- annihilation.
we already noted that the vector bosons w and z themselves carry electro-weak charges.
wâ± have an electric charge.
and both wâ± and z have a nonzero  weak isospin.
there is thus an interaction vertex among electroweak bosons with the couplings indicated here.
these vertices fix the values of electroweak couplings in a unique manner, and at the same time for interaction between bosons and between fermions and bosons.
charged bosons can then be produced in pairs by e+ e- annihilation.
the position of the threshold for w pair production and the shape of the cross section at threshold determine the mass of the w boson with good precision as done by the l3 experiment at the large electron positron collider.
a second method for the mass determination is to measure the four-momenta of the decay products and form the invariant mass.
since the mass is a relativistic invariant, we do not need to produce the w at rest.
for two-body decays at high energy, this means measuring energy and direction of the particles.
the example shows here an event of a w+ decaying into a positron and an electron-neutrino, seen by the atlas experiment at the large hadron collider.
the high energy positron is shown by the yellow track in the central detector.
and the corresponding energy, the position in the calorimeter also shown in yellow.
the neutrino, the second decay product of the w+  leaves no trace in the detector but manifests itself as a missing energy and momentum.
momentum balance is indeed only guaranteed in the plane transverse to the beam, because gluons and quarks carry a variable fraction x_bj of the incident proton momentum, as we discussed in module 5. however, analyzing the kinematics in the transverse plane alone allows for a good precision measurement of the w mass.
the results of the two methods are in good agreement and can be averaged because they are independent.
the precision reached with threshold and invariant mass methods is ten times smaller than what can obtained measuring a mass by a resonance, as it is done for the z mass measurement, which we will see in the next video.
in fact, in the next video, martin will talk about the properties of the z bosons, which transmit the weak neutral interaction.
[music]
