[MUSIC] In this sixth module,
we are discussing weak interactions. In this fifth video, we'll talk about
the properties of the W bosons, which transmit the charged weak force and
are responsible for weak decays. After following this video, you will know
the W couplings to matter and forces. The mass of the W bosons and
the various ways to measure it. In video 6.3, we already defined
the couplings of the W to matter. And in video 6.4, we have reviewed
the method to measure the Fermi constant, which applies to processes with
q^2 much smaller than the square of the mass of W, and thus defines the intensity of
weak interactions at low energy. So now the question is how to
measure the mass of the W boson? This is done using two different methods 
which are of comparable accuracy. The first method determines the mass by measuring the energy threshold for the production 
of W pairs in e+e- annihilation. We already noted that
the vector bosons W and Z themselves carry electro-weak charges. W± have an electric charge. And both W± and Z have a nonzero 
weak isospin. There is thus an interaction
vertex among electroweak bosons with
the couplings indicated here. These vertices fix the values of
electroweak couplings in a unique manner, and at the same time for interaction
between bosons and between fermions and bosons. Charged bosons can then be produced
in pairs by e+ e- annihilation. The position of the threshold for
W pair production and the shape of the cross section at threshold determine the mass
of the W Boson with good precision as done by the L3 experiment at the Large
Electron Positron collider. A second method for
the mass determination is to measure the four-momenta of the decay products and
form the invariant mass. Since the mass is
a relativistic invariant, we do not need to produce the W at rest. For two-body decays at high energy,
this means measuring energy and direction of the particles. The example shows here an event of
a W+ decaying into a positron and an electron-neutrino, seen by the ATLAS
experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The high energy positron is
shown by the yellow track in the central detector. And the corresponding energy, the position
in the calorimeter also shown in yellow. The neutrino, the second decay product of the W+ 
leaves no trace in the detector but manifests itself as a missing energy and
momentum. Momentum balance is indeed only guaranteed
in the plane transverse to the beam, because gluons and
quarks carry a variable fraction x_Bj of the incident proton momentum,
as we discussed in module 5. However, analyzing the kinematics in
the transverse plane alone allows for a good precision
measurement of the W mass. The results of the two methods
are in good agreement and can be averaged because
they are independent. The precision reached with threshold and
invariant mass methods is ten times smaller than what can
obtained measuring a mass by a resonance, as it is done for the Z mass measurement,
which we will see in the next video. In fact, in the next video,
Martin will talk about the properties of the Z bosons,
which transmit the weak neutral interaction. [MUSIC]