[music].
i want to begin with a statement of he  fundamental theorem of calculus.
suppose the function little f, from the  closed interval a to b, to the real  numbers, is a continuous function.
and let's define a function big f, to be  the accumulation function.
right, that's the integral.
from a to x of the function on the left  well then the function big f turns out to  be continuous in the closed interval a to  b differentiable on the open interval a  to b and this is the big point the  derivative of big f is little f.  we've seen a bit of evidence for this  already.
and suppose i got the accumulation  function.
so big f of x is the integral from a to x  of f of tdt.
and now i can ask, how is the  accumulation function changing?
well, the accumulation function is  increasing, meaning it's derivative is  positive if the function that i'm  integrating is positive.
and the accumulation function is  decreasing, meaning the derivative is  negative.
if the function that i'm integrating is  negative.
and this suggests that the derivative of  the accumulation function and the  function that i'm integrating might be  related in some way.
here's a graph that's particularly  compelling.
so, i'll draw the coordinate plane,  here's the y axis, here's the t axis in  this case and i'll draw some random  looking graph.
that'll be the graph y equals f of t.  and then i'll pick some point.
i'll call it a and some other point x.  and then i'll look at the area under the  graph between a and x, rigth?
and that's the integral from a to x of f  of t d t.  right that area is the accumulation  function evaluated x.  now what's the derivative of the  accumulation function.
what got the accumulation function, right  f(x) equals the interval from a to x that  f(t)dt and i don't know how that changes  when x changes.
so lets make a small change in x.  lets go from x.  to say x plus h and then ask how does the  area in this region compare to the area  in this much larger region.
what's big f of x plus h minus big f of  x?
yeah, so what's f of x plus h right  that's the area.
from a to x plus h, minus f of x, big f  of x.  that's the area from a to x, and that  difference, right.
that difference is just the area inside  here.
that little leftover piece is practically  a rectangle of height, f of x, little f  of x and width h.  i mean, this region is not quite a  rectangle.
but it's awfully close to a rectangle of,  width h.  and area f of x plus h minus f of x.  now, remember, by goal was to  differentiate the accumulation function.
and all i've got is this rectangle.
whose width is about h, and whose height,  you think about it, it's about f of x.  so what's up with this rectangle?
alright?
i mean what i've really got here is a  rectangle and its area is about f of x  plus h minus f of x, this accumulation  function.
it's width is h, and it's height is about  f of x.  well i've got a rectangle with this area  and this width and, and this height.
alright, what do i know?
i know its height times its width is its  area, so if i take its area and divide by  its width, i should get its height.
now all this is just approximate, but  let's write that down.
i the area of this you know, rectangle is  f of x plus h minus f of x.  and if i divide by the width, i should  get, the height.
what does that mean after i take a limit?
oh of course this is only approximately  true, but if i take a limit, right.
if i take a limit as h approaches 0.  this gives me the derivative of the  accumulation function and that will in  fact be equal to the function's value.
and that is the whole game.
the accumulation function f is an  antiderivative of f.  well this, i mean this is really  remarkable.
for instance you might be wondering  what's an anti-derivative of this  function, little f of x equals e to the  negative x squared?
well if a functions continuous then we  can find an anti-derivative.
the anti-dirivitive is the accumulation  function.
so an anti-derivative of either the  negative x squared is the accumulation  function.
i can define a function big f of x to be  the intregal from a to x, for some number  a, of e to the negative t squared d t.  and if i differentiate this accumulation  function, i get back e to the negative x  squared.
so i found an anti-derivative.
for this function.
well i can't write it down any more  nicely.
because i can't write down an  anti-derivative for e to the negative x  squared using the functions that i have  at hand.
but nevertheless, the anti-derivative is  the accumulation function.
