[music] integrating requires patience.
sometimes you can start attacking the  monster, but it might take a little bit  of time before you start to see success.
prepare to persevere.
let's attack the indefinite integral of  cosx times e to the x dx.
there's a metaphor here.
there's really different ways to win the  battle.
suppose this is you, and this is the  integral that you're trying to attack.
one way, is you know, to try and do it by  hand, right.
to take your shield and to take your  sword, and just to evaluate that integral  directly by, say going back to the  definition of riemann sum.
but we almost never attack integrals in  this way.
instead of using, you know, swords and  shields, we're really using, you know,  magic.
right?
we're putting on our wizard hat.
and instead of trying to kill the  intregral, right?
we use something like u substitution to  transform that integration problem into a  friendly integration problem that we can  actually deal with, right?
we're never attacking integrals directly  we're just transforming integrals by  doing u substitutions or parts.
so let's try to transform the integration  that we're attacking here.
let's tranform e to the x cosx to  something else.
so i'll use what u, i'll make u be e to  the x.  because i don't really mind  differentiating that.
and i'll make dv cosx dx.
now in that case, the derivative of e to  the x is just e to the x.  and what's an anti-derivative of cosine?
an anti-derivative of cosine is sine.
now what is integration by parts say.
so then anti-derivative of cosx e to the  x dx is u times v, so e to the x sinx  minus the intergral of v du so, sinx, e  to the x dx.
well that didn't really help matters.
but the word of the day is persevere.
so let's persevere, and transform that  integral into yet another monster.
so the monster in this case is this thing  here.
let's try the same trick on that new  integral.
so u will be e to the x again and dv  here, will be just what's left over, sine  x dx.
and in that case, if u is e to the x,  then du is e to the x dx.
and, if dv is sin x dx, well, i've got  other choices for more anti-derivative,  but i'll have v be minus cosx.
now, i've put this into the integration  by parts formula.
so the antiderivative of sinx e to the x  dx is uv, so minus e to the x cosx minus  vdu.
so my-, the integral of vdu, so v is  cosx, and du is e to the x dx.
now what's happened thus far in the  battle?
i'm attacking this integral.
i used integration by parts to transform  the monster into something else.
it didn't help, so i used that magical  weapon again.
i used integration by parts again to  transform the integration problem into  yet another integration problem and it  didn't help.
or did it?
what happens if i put these two  integration facts together?
well, and then i've got here, the  integral of cosx, e to the x dx, is equal  to e to the x sin x minus the integral of  sinx, e to the x, dx, which is down here.
so minus negative e to x cos x plus the  integral of cosine x e to the dx.
lets persevere, lets keep going.
so this is saying the integral of cos x e  to the x dx is e to the x sin x plus e to  the x, cosine x, minus the integral of  cosine x, e to the x, dx.
now i'm going to add the integral of cos  x e to the x, dx to both sides.
and what i'll then get is 2 times the  integral of cos x e to the x, dx is equal  to, well what's left on the righthand  side, e to the x sin x plus e to the x,  cos x.  and then i'll divide both sides by 2, and  if i divide this side by 2 and this side  by 2 well then these 2's cancel, and i  find out that an antiderivative of cosine  x e to the x is e to the x sin x plus z  to the x cos x all over 2.  what we did here is one of my favorite  applications of integration by parts.
we didn't use integration by parts to  solve, to evaluate the integral directly.
instead, i applied parts twice and ended  up with a clone of the original monster.
so how did that go?
well, here you are, right, and you're a  wizard, so here's your wizard hat, and  here's the integral that we wanted to  attack.
but we didn't attack this integral  directly.
we didn't' even transform this integral  by using u substitution.
instead, we used parts twice and it  seemed like that was a terrible idea  because when i applied parts twice, i  ended up with a clone of the original  monster.
the same integral ended up appearing.
but, that other integral came with a  minus sign.
and, consequently that monster ends up  defeating itself and we're able to  evaluate the integral without actually  integrating at all.
if anything suggests that there's  creativity in the battles ahead of us, i  think integration by parts is telling us,  to be prepared to be amazed.
