[MUSIC] Hello and welcome to the sixth module of our
introductory course of subatomic physics. In this sixth module, we discuss weak
interactions and the Higgs mechanism. You will notice that this module is again
larger than the average module. This is due to the rich phenomenology
of electro-weak interactions. We recommend that you take
two weeks to digest it. Before diving into our subject, in this
first video we will go into more depth on the subject of antiparticles. After following this video, you will know
the difference between particles and antiparticles and the connection between antiparticles and
energy-momentum reversal. How do antiparticles come into
play in the standard model? It all starts with
the evolution equation for fields which takes the role of
an equation of motion for particles. It follows from relativistic
energy-momentum conservation by operator substitution. The result is the Klein-Gordon
equation for free particles. Its solutions follow a continuity
equation as seen here. It describes the conversation of a 
four-vector current j^µ of particles. The time component is the probability
density of finding a particle at location x and t. Its spatial component is the particle
flow density at that same position. Imagine an infinitely small
volume that surrounds the point that we are considering. The density in the volume can only
change – drho/dt not equal to zero – if particles enter or exit through the
boundaries of the volume, which means that divergence of j should then
simultaneously be non-equal to zero. This ensures that the number
of particles in the volume is conserved. It might surprise you that
the probability density contains the time derivative of the wave function. We will understand this
fact in a little while. The Klein-Gordon equation is manifestly
covariant, it contains only scalars under Lorenz transformation. Plain waves must be a solution of
the Klein-Gordon equation, and describe a free particle. We use a normalization proportional to
an arbitrary constant square root of N. You may take N as the number
density of particles if you wish. The current density is
proportional to the four-momentum. Its temporal component is
proportional to the energy. This is due to the covariance
of the quantity. It requires that the probability
rho d^3x is invariant. The volume element changes like 
d^3x -> d^3x/gamma, because of the Lorentz contraction
in the direction of motion. For invariance, the probability density must then
change as rho -> gamma times rho. With gamma equal E/m,
rho must thus be proportional to energy. It is for this reason that
the probability density and current density contain respectively a
time and a space derivative of the field. Let us now consider the energy eigenvalues
of relativistic free particles, inserting a plane wave solution
into the Klein-Gordon equation. We find solutions with positive and
with negative energy. And since the density of probability
is proportional to the energy, it is no more positive definite either. This contradicts the definition of
probability as a real number between zero and one. To solve this problem we must interpret
the continuity equation in an innovative way, introducing the electromagnetic
current density. Proportional to the electric charge Q, j^0 now becomes the local
charge density and thus, may be negative as well as positive
in agreement with intuition. It is obvious that
solutions of positive and negative energy are distinguished by
the charge of the considered particle, if one wants to keep the probability
density always positive. It is thus not the probability density,
2N p^µ, which is invariant, but the electromagnetic current density,
2Q N p^µ, which obeys the rules for
physically sensible probabilities. The current density is conserved
by the continuity equation. With this concept, we can very well
spontaneously create and annihilate particles, provided that the total charge in an 
infinitesimal volume remains constant. All of this is a consequence of
relativistic covariance only. Which are the implications
of this reinterpretation for the negative energy solutions? The answer is given by Feynman's
interpretation of these states. The electromagnetic current density of
a free electron with charge Q = -e, ignoring its spin, is given
by the first equation. This current is that of a particle with
positive energy advancing in the direction of its momentum vector. Let us
say that it emerges from a vertex. For a free positron, Q = +e,
the current is positive but the current density is the same as for an
electron of negative energy which moves in the opposite direction,
say entering into the vertex. That is to say that the particle
with negative energy which comes out of a vertex is equivalent to
an antiparticle with positive energy that enters intervals. In this way, we can eliminate
the solutions with negative energy, and replace them by antiparticles
evolving in the opposite direction. This establishes a connection between
the transformation between particles and antiparticles, which we call
charge conjugation, and the reversal of the direction
of momentum called parity. These two transformations will be analyzed
in more detail in the next video. But first, we look at the consequences
of Feynman's interpretation of negative energy states. These consequences are indeed quite
dramatic as shown by the example of a simple double scattering process. Heisenberg's Principle allows us
to reverse the order of the two scatters in time. The intermediate state will
then move backwards in time. We replace it by its anti-particle
moving forward in time. The double scatter then becomes a pair
creation process as shown on the right followed by a particle/anti-particle
annihilation process. Both contributions begin with
the same initial state and end up with the same final state. We must thus sum them at
the level of amplitudes when calculating the total
probability of the process. When calculating simple scatters, it is sufficient to consider particles,
the corresponding anti-particle process can be obtained by reversing
the direction of the particles. In the next vide, we introduce the
discreet transformations of space time, parity, and time reversal and charge
conjugation, which transforms the wave function of a particle into that of
an anti particle and vise versa.