[MUSIC] Hello, welcome to the second module of our
introductory course on Subatomic Physics. During this module, we'll deal with
nuclear physics and its applications. At the end of the module, we will visit the Tokamak of the Swiss
Institute of Technology in Lausanne. And the Beznau Nuclear Power Plant which
is the oldest one still in operation. This is pretty much
a self-contained module, if your main interest is nuclear physics,
you will be well-served. You will also notice that it is
somewhat longer than other modules, so just take your time to digest
the contents without pressure. In this first video, we will review
what is known about the mass of nuclei. The goals for you are the following. To know the nomenclature of atomic
nuclei and their periodic system. And to be able to qualitatively describe
the mass and binding energy of nuclei. Experiments of the Rutherford type
demonstrate the existence of a positively charged nucleus, which is four orders of magnitude
smaller than the size of the atom. These experiments only require
to understand electromagnetic interactions between the project and
the target. Scattering experiments can also yield
information about nuclear properties. And thus establish a catalog of
the properties of the nuclear interaction that holds together protons and
neutrons inside the nucleus. One must not confuse this nuclear force
with the strong force introduced in the first module and more extensively
discussed in module number five. The strong force binds together quarks
inside hadrons by gluon exchange. It does not permit quarks
to leave the hadrons. So hadrons in general and nucleons in particular,
do not carry a net color charge. Thus gluons cannot bind protons and
neutrons to form a nucleus. The nuclear force is more like a long
distance residue of the strong force in that it resembles the well-known
Van der Waals force, which is a residue of the electromagnetic
interaction which acts between electrically neutral molecules. Let us compare some basic properties of
atoms, and the electromagnetic force on one side, to nuclei, and
the nuclear force on the other side. The electromagnetic force is
responsible for holding atoms together. Its properties are well known,
classically, and rather easy to extrapolate
to quantum distances. The study of atomic spectra indeed
gave rise to quantum mechanics, which qualitatively and quantitatively explains many phenomena
of condensed matter physics. The fine structure constant, the electromagnetic coupling
constant, is a small number. Alpha is about 1/137, which makes
perturbative calculations feasible. The nuclear force, on the other hand,
must be much stronger, since it wins over the Coulomb repulsion
between tightly-packed protons. It must be of short range, since it doesn't make itself
felt outside the nuclear volume. It has no classical analog. Only experimental results can help
to understand its properties. One thus uses experiments as
a guide towards empirical models of the nucleus and of the nuclear force. We will come back to the relation between
experiments and models as we go along. Let us first summarize how we identify and
denote nuclei. We denote by Z, the nuclear charge, which is equal to the atomic
number in the periodic table. Itis given by the number
of protons in the nucleus. A is the number of nucleons,
the sum of protons and neutrons, it is also called the mass number. Nuclei are thus completely identified
by their electric charge and the number of nucleons. The name we give them identifies Z and
usually is supplemented by A. When we say carbon 14, that means a nucleus with Z=6 and A=14. Evidently, the number of neutrons is then
the difference between the mass number and the atomic number, and is denoted by N. The chemical properties of the elements
are determined by the electron cloud surrounding the nucleus. The periodic table is thus
organized according to Z. Nuclei with the same number of protons,
but with a different number of neutrons,
are called isotopes. They have very similar
chemical properties but not necessarily similar
nuclear properties. Examples are uranium 235 and
uranium 238, which have both 92 protons, but a different number of neutrons and
thus different stability properties. Another example is hydrogen,
deuterium, and tritium which all have one proton and
zero, one, or two neutrons. Nuclei can also be
excited to higher states, keeping the number of protons and
neutrons constant. These are called resonances or isomers. Nuclei with the same
number of nucleons but the different number of
protons are called isobars. They have roughly the same nuclear mass. Examples are carbon 12 and boron 12,
with both have 12 nucleons. Naively one might assume that the mass
of nuclei is simply given by the sum of the masses of protons and
neutrons they contain. But in reality, this mass is, of course, diminished by the binding
energy between the nucleons. The mass deficit ∆M
must always be negative so that the nucleus is in a bound state. We call it the binding energy. It has been measured for
practically all nuclei. The absolute value of the binding energy
is the energy required to decompose the nucleus into separate nucleons. The binding energy per nucleon,
∆M/A, is the energy required to separate
the average nucleon from its nucleus. It is much smaller than
the mass of a nucleon p and n. The mass of the nucleus is thus indeed
dominated by the mass of its constituents. For the nucleons themselves
the situation is very different. The total mass of the quarks inside
the nucleon is only around 1% of the nucleon mass. It is their binding energy which
dominates the nucleon mass. When one analyzes the dependance of
the binding energy, ∆M per nucleon A, on the mass number A one
notices the following. For A less than 20 on
the left side of this graph, ∆M/A oscillates but
rises rapidly with increasing A. For A between 20 and 60, ∆M/A saturates. For A about 60, it has a broad maximum. That is, the iron group formed by nickel,
iron, and cobalt with about 9 MeV
per nucleon of binding energy. And then for A larger than 60, the binding
energy per nucleon decreases slowly. The general mean is about 8 MeV per nucleon. The kinetic energy of nucleons inside
the nucleus must thus be relatively small. Otherwise, they would not stay bound. The velocities of bound nucleons
are thus non-relativistic. The binding energy corresponds indeed to a
wavelength of nucleons inside the nucleus. This wavelength is less than two Fermi of
the order of the nucleus' size itself. It is thus plausible that the nucleus can
contain nucleons with the maximum kinetic energy of about 8 MeV. Or a maximum momentum of about 120 Me. If, on the other hand,
the nucleus would contain electrons, they would be relativistic and
their wavelength would be 2.5 x 10^-12 centimeters,
much bigger than the nucleus size. The nucleus can thus not
contain bound electrons. They need a much larger
volume to be contained. This is obviously in agreement with
the findings of Geiger and Marsden, that we have discussed
in the previous module. In the next video, we will talk about
the size and the spin of nuclei. [MUSIC]