[MUSIC] During the second module,
we are discussing nuclear physics and its application. And in this third video we will introduce
simple models which allow to better understand the structure of nuclei and
their properties. After watching this video you
should be able to describe these models of nuclear structure. Distinguish which features each model
describes and where it's limits are and in particular know the so-called magic
nuclei and their special properties. For reasons discussed in the previous
videos we know quite well the strong force acting between quarks
inside the protons and neutrons, thanks to quantum chromodynamics. A complete theory of the nuclear
force between these based on first principles of QCD however does not exist. Since we do not know how to calculate
the properties of the nuclear force ab initio it is difficult to apprehend
nuclear structure theoretically. Consequently the models of nuclear
structure are rather qualitative. Most precede QCD itself, the models of nuclear structure
are rather qualitative. However, one can of course base model
building on experimental facts and on physical intuition. Each of these models presented in the
following will concentrate on a particular aspect of nuclear structure and
nuclear properties. So let us start with the most simple one
which is called the liquid drop model. In this model, which has been the first phenomenological
model to describe the binding energy and size of nuclei, the quantum properties
of nucleons are largely ignored or taken into account in an ad hoc way. The model describes the nucleus
as a compact packing of incompressible nucleons. This gives a total nuclear volume
proportional to the number of nuclei, as we have observed. The mass density of nuclei is
approximately independent of A. This considerations lead to
imagine the nucleus like an incompressible drop of liquid. The molecules of
the liquid are the nuclei. The Van der Waals force is replaced by nuclear force. The binding energy ∆M or
BE on this slide is equal to the mass difference between the nucleus
and the sum of it's nucleons. It is the energy won by the bound
system and thus negative for stable nuclear states. It is principally proportional to A,
i.e. to the number of nuclei or the nuclear volume. This is due to the fact that each nucleon mostly interacts with
it's nearest neighbors. But the nucleons on the outer boundary have
less neighbors and are less tightly bound. This is taken into account by a term proportional to the nuclear
surface A to power two-thirds. It's always analogous to the surface
tension of a liquid drop. It reduce the binding energy, per nucleon, and it makes the binding
energy somewhat less negative. Hence it has a positive sign. This surface term is more important for
heavy than for light nuclei,
which explains their less tight binding. The third term takes into account
the energy of Coulomb repulsion between protons. This term also decreases the absolute
value of the binding energy and thus has are positive side. Up to now the considerations
are purely classical but corrections inspired by
quantum effects are important. Like nuclei with a equal
number of protons and neutrons, that is to say Z=N,
are particularly stable. They have a more negative binding energy. Also there are more stable even-even
nuclei and few stable odd-odd nuclei. Odd and even refers to the number
of protons and neutrons. One thus adds two
empirical terms to obtain what is called
the Bethe-Weizsacker formula. The asymmetry terms reduces the binding
energy for N not equal to Z and the pairing term has a positive sign for
odd-odd nuclei which are less stable. For even-even nuclei the sign is negative and
the nuclei more stable. For all other combinations, i.e. for
odd A, the last term is zero. Once the coefficients of
the terms a_1 through a_4 are adjusted to match nuclear masses, the formula describes rather accurately the binding
of sufficiently heavy nuclei. It is less accurate for light nuclei, and it fails especially to match
the exceptionally large binding energy of the very stable He-4 nucleus. However, we will use it extensively
to qualitatively understand the phenomena of fusion and fission. An approach more compatible with
the quantum nature of subatomic particles is the Fermi gas model. In this model, the nucleus is
described as a gas of free protons and neutrons, confined to the nuclear volume
by a potential of unspecified origin. The nuclei then occupy
quantized energy levels, the potential is modelled
as a spherical well. It's size represents
the size of the nucleus. It's depth is adjusted to obtain
the right binding energy. The difference between
the ground states of protons and neutrons is due to the Coulomb potential
which is only present for protons and decreases the depth of a potential well. Since n and p are fermions there can be only two per
energy level with opposite spin. The last filled energy
level defines the energy which refers to the least
tightly bound nucleons. So how many nucleons can
we store in a given volume? It's the Schrödinger equation
that gives us the answer. We consider the nucleons to be
confined to a square box with side a. The solution can then be factorized with n_x, n_y, and n_z positive integer numbers and
a normalization factor a. The phase space is thus quantified. Setting E equal to p^2/2m one sees that k_i are the wave
numbers equal to the momentum along each axis in natural units. So now we can count states,
let us consider momentum space. Due to the boundary conditions, for
each elementary cube of side pi/a there is a single point which is compatible
with the Schrödinger equation. The number of viable solutions
with the wave number between k and k + dk is thus the ratio of
the corresponding spherical shell and the volume element, (pi/a)^3rd. The volume of the box is a cube but we only consider 1/8,
since all k_i must be positive. In the grand state all levels up to
the maximum momentum are filled. Integrating up to the Fermi mo,entum one does obtains the
number of states which can fill the volume. One must of course take into
account the factor of two for the two spin orientations,
as well as the nuclear volume, which is 4 (pi/3) r_0^3 A. The energy corresponding
to the maximum momentum is, what is called a Fermi energy, E_F. It is approximately 33 MeV independent of A. The result is in fact also independent of
the shape of the confinement volume. The value of the Fermi energy
means that the nucleons are non relativistic
inside the nucleus but still move at a considerable
velocity, ß equal to roughly 0.4. The nucleus is thus a very
dynamic environment indeed. The model also explains
in a rather natural way the asymmetry term of the Bethe-Weizsäcker equation. Given E_F the Fermi energy and
the binding energy of the last nucleon of roughly 8 MeV we obtain a potential
depth V_0 of about 40 MeV. In analogy with the atomic shell model,
a shell model for the nucleus can be constructed. The orbital quantum number n describes
the energy level of the nuclei. For each n, there are n levels of
orbital angular momentum l and 2l+1 subshells of the projection
of l on an arbitrary axis. These subshells are degenerate in energy because of the rotational symmetry
of the Coulomb potential. There are two spin states per subshell
with m_s equal to ±1/2. A state can thus be described by four
quantum numbers, n, l, m_l, and m_s. The nuclei with completely filled
shells are particularly stable, which explains the notion of
magic numbers, which are Z or N equal to 2, 8, 20, 28,
50, 82, 126, and so forth. Isotopes with shells of both protons and
neutrons completely filled, i.e. with Z and N equal to a magic
number are even more stable. Example of these doubly
magic nuclei are He-4, O-16, Ca-40, Ca-48, Ni-48, Ni-56 and PB-208. One of the strong points of the shell
model is its prediction of nuclear spins. According to the model p and n fill up the levels independently, two in
each subshell due to the Pauli principle. In this way, the last or valence nucleon, which does not have a pair, will
determine the nuclei spin. The immediate consequence is that
even-even nuclei should have spin 0 in agreement with observation. However the share model fails to
predict the spin of odd-odd nuclei since it does not include interactions
between protons and neutrons. When the correct spin is predicted, the model also gets the nuclear
magnetic moments right, which is important for nuclear magnetic
resonance phenomena for example. We will talk about that when we treat
applications of nuclear physics. It is obvious that more sophisticated
nuclear models than those we have treated here can be constructed. But that goes beyond the scope
of this introductory course. In the next video, we will rather go over
the properties of unstable nuclei and their radioactive decays. [MUSIC]