[MUSIC] Here in the second module, we're in the process of dealing with
nuclear physics and it's applications. We have underlined several times that
the basics of the nuclear force in terms of quantum chronodynamics,
are anything but clear. The purpose of this optional interlude
is to trigger a discussion on this particular subject. The relation between the nuclear force
which binds together nucleons inside the nucleus and the strong force
which binds quarks to form hadrons is not clear at all although
the two must be obviously related. In fact the nuclear force ought
to be a long range effect of QCD, binding nucleons via
color neutral objects. An interesting discussion is found in this
article by one of the fathers of QCD, Fred Wilczek, in the journal nature, the
source is quoted on the top of the slide. An accessible summary can be found on the
web at the address quoted on the bottom. And here is a short excerpt
that I will read to you. Ironically, from the perspective of
QCD the foundations of nuclear physics appear distinctively unsound. He continues by explaining
what the contradiction is. Yet QCD tells us that protons and neutrons
are themselves built from quarks and gluons that move at very
nearly the speed of light. These more basic particles
carry color charge, leading to the additional requirement
that they be confined within bags whose contents are overall color-neutral. And he further asks, but
why don't a separate proton and neutron bags in a complex
nucleus merge into a common bag? On the face of it, the one bag
arrangement has a lot going for it. It would allow quarks and gluons free
access to a larger volume of space and so save on the energy cost of localizing
their quantum mechanical wave function. But in such a merger, protons and neutrons
would lose their individual identities, and our traditional quite successful
model of atomic nuclei would crumble. What prevents that calamity? I invite you to think about
this question yourself, and discuss it in the forum of this course. We will come back to it in module five
where which will deal with hadrons and their strong interaction. [MUSIC]