Hi, and welcome to the Glue Lectures for
control of mobile robots. This is the last Glue Lecture, Glue
Lecture 7. And I really hope that you guys have
enjoyed the course and learned a lot of awesome things, are
super excited about robotics. I hope you are.
So, this Glue Lecture is just going to be. Basically the course in a nutshell in a
very big nutshell, in the sense of a very broad
overview. Basically what we think from a layman's
perspective is like the best thing you got out of the course, you know,
really simple stuff. Because your quiz is also going to kind of
go over what you've done. All this while etcetera. So this is what the glue lecture is about.
The first thing that I think was amazing about this
entire course is the fact that, you know, we saw how math can be related to motion.
How we can actually visually see. Equations turn into motion. So if you guys remember here we have this pink ball that's moving happily in this
corner, you know. And from the new lectures and the course
we saw that the motion of this ball can actually be described through equations or through
math. Not only can the motion be described, but
we can actually derive the motion. Through something called a dynamical
model, or dynamical models in this case, we have this here,
right? Which is also math, and then from this we
can actually get how this ball is moving with
time, right. So, this was an example we saw in the glue
lectures. Basically, you have a dynamical model that describes the velocity and where the ball
wakes up at a particular time, and then kind of
find out how the ball is going to change with
respect to time. Really simple. The whole point is that, you know, we all saw how math basically translates to
motion, which is great. Then we also saw that okay, since this
course is about robots, right? So we read a few dynamical models of the robots. So this is the most common robot that is
there, basically, or that we deal with, a
two-wheel differential drive robot. And we saw that, you know what, we can
write the model of this guy through this equation here, or
through the set of equations here. Where you control the angular velocities
of the right and left wheel of the robot, right? And then we also saw that you can simplify the model even farther, and make it a
unicycle robot, with just like one wheel, and
basically. This figure here. And you can control the velocity and the
angular velocity of this simplified model. The good thing about this was the fact
that, you know what, this simplified model can be
used for design. And then we have a beautiful
transformation on or relation basically between these two models that once we
design our v and omega for the simplified model, we can just, you
know, put it on to the differential. Rate model and and find out vr and vi to
give to the robots, right? And actually this week with Dr. Edgarsted
you learned another even simpler model. Not even a model but a simpler thing
called x dot equal to u. Basically where, you know, you don't even want to control
let's say the vel, linear velocity and the
angular velocity. Instead you just directly going to
control, you know, x dot. Equal to u. And, and then you learn this very nice
transformation that allows you to transform this x star equal to u
directly to your reason omegas. Right? So, now all of the sudden you don't even have to design your controller based on
this model. You just design it based off this guy
here. You know, map it back to v and omega
model, map that back to your vr vm model, and you're really
good to go, just excellent. Another thing that you learned in this week's lecture was the car-like model
where you have a current, all you do is there is you
include this steering angle psi. Into your correlate model, and then you can even map that model onto the simplified model, and the simplified model
onto whatever. So on and so forth. You're good to go. So this was how math translates to motion and basically what is a dynamical model,
or. How do we start with any robotics problem
we start with the model so this is what that
is. okay. This is one excellent thing. The second thing that we learned in the
course was systems, so now that we know how a model of a, you know robot or
anything we want to control is. Described through math.
Now we want to influence it, right? We want to control it.
We want it to do certain things. So that's when this whole idea of systems
comes in that okay, we're going to have an input, we're
going to have an output. And we're going to actually describe our system through these three matrices.
A, B and C. Again, something that we went over
extensively in class. And your system can now again, of course,
be a robot, here it's a Capera robot, here
there's a humanoid. Now robot. Anything for which you can find your A, B
and C matrices. Now A matrix, just remember. Is your model, which we just discussed
right now, right?
It's something that's given. Something that's from the physics or from
basically the device. B matrix is actually something that we
construct, that describes the actuators. Basically, what are the actuators on this
model or on this robot, in particular, that we can
control? And that information is encoded in the B
matrix and then the C matrix of course is, what can
we measure? Or what's the output? Wha, what are the sensors on this robot
from which we can get our output? And together, A, B and C will make you
make the system. Yeah.
So that's awesome. Right? And this is extremely important because
once you have the model and now you have the system and now you have everything you
need to do cool things with the robot. Which is precisely what the slide says. We can make robots do basically anything.
Well, not anything but. You know, close enough. And, in this lecture, or sorry, in this
course, basically what we saw was that, you know
what, once we have our model and then we create
our system for the model A, B and C matrices,
etcetera, then, we can in fact make sure that our
system. Robot, with, you know, sensors, actuators,
and the, everything, does not blow up, does not end up doing
anything random. It stays stable. And we also do this whole controllability,
observability analysis, which is very important in order to make
the robot actually do anything. Before you can even start talking about
controlling the robot. Etcetera. You need to know that, you know, is it
controllable, is it observable, do I in fact have the ability
to do all these things. We did all this extensively in class. Another very cool thing that we learned
was this whole automata, our hybrid controls notion, you
know, that you can. For a robot to do some task you can actually divide up this task into make
small, small behaviors that the robot does and then
kind of mash all these behaviors together and into
this automata thing. And then also we learned that once you do
this you know there are undesirable things like the zeno effect for instance
and how do you get rid of it. And a lot of other things that we saw in
this course, right? What is great though, was that we did all
this with math. So, by the end of this course, you guys
have actually learned about differential equations, linear algebra, geometry, a lot
of these awesome tools that. Can you make you, you know, actually do
such nice stuff with the robots visually. Not only just in software simulation but you actually see it happening.
You know, in front of you. Which is great. And on the same track if you can make
robots do anything. These are two robots, the humanoid robots
in our lab. The now and one guy is doing a cheer
leading the team and the other one is doing a disco
dancing routine. This is Emy Lavier's work when she was a grad student at George Dake, in our lab
and basically she has a command of this entire thing based of this course of, of hybrid
automators etcetera. Right in front of you guys we are actually making robots dance, which is
great, right? And, you can see more amazing videos and
stuff about, you know, what a lab does or what the robots do on the
GRITSLab YouTube Channel. For more stuff, and anyway this is us signing off. Me, Swati Chopra and the robots on behalf
of Amy Leviers. And good luck with quiz seven and the rest
of your lives. And bye, bye. [BLANK_AUDIO]