[music]
in this video, i will give you a little insight 
into how one uses the particle detectors
which we have introduced in module 3
to detect charged particles and light. 
at the end of this video you will know how one integrates 
semiconductor sensors into so-called particle trackers,
which reconstruct the trajectory of particles, and how one uses
light detection techniques to detect particles using scintillators. 
we have already introduced the principles of particle detection by
semiconductor detectors in video 3.8, and by
scintillators in video 3.9.
so, to my right,
you see two applications of semiconductor detectors,
on top for the atlas experiment of the lhc at cern, and below
by the space experiment ams installed on the international space station. 
let us start by the top set-up.
you see here a part of the atlas forward detector
and the particles enter this part of the
detector in roughly this direction. 
they are localised by these silicon
microstrip detectors, which you see on my left. 
there are in fact two superimposed detectors, glued to each other. 
they make a small angle, which permits, even by a detector
with single sided read out, to localise the particles in three dimensions. 
you see on the bottom of each detector a small electronics card,
directly connected to the detector, which shapes the signal
and, when a trigger arrives, transmits it, 
in this case an optical signal, through this slim optical fibre coming out. 
you also see this piping behind,
which is part of the detector infrastructure,
and which transports a cooling liquid, absorbing the heat and
stabilising the temperature of detector and electronics. 
the second line of particle detectors, 
which we very actively follow here at the department of nuclear 
and particle physics of the university of geneva,
are scintillation detectors,
which we have already introduced in video 3.9.
so, here
you see the classical way of constructing a scintillation detector. 
you take a scintillating material, you connect it
via a light guide to a photomultiplier. 
in the past, in the 1970-80␙s, these were
vacuum tubes, very bulky and heavy.
and here you see the direction which is being followed today. 
on can produce scintillating fibres, 
very fine ones, which can be connected to a very small
light detector like this one, 
which allows at the same time to localise 
particles ant to measure their specific energy loss de/dx,
as we have explained in video 3.9.
once integrated, the set-up looks roughly like this,
you see a fine layer of scintillators directly coupled 
to a semiconductor light detector, which localises light emission
and measures its intensity, produced by the passage of the particle. 
with this one can also construct particle tracking detectors,
which are light, deformable and can be adjusted to
practically any detector shape
since the whole stays flexible and can be 
made to made to follow almost any desired form. 
with this, 
you have seen two of our specialties in the development of novel 
particle detectors. 
but we do not stop here. the direction we follow for
semiconductor sensors goes towards pixel detectors,
which allow, in the same sensor, 
to directly localise particles in two directions. 
they also present an improvement
in resolution, which is rather impressive. 
you see here a sensor, which localises particles to about
ten micrometers.
i remind you that the diameter of a human hair
is about 100 micrometers, i.e. the sensor localisation 
is 10 times more precise. 
[music]
