[MUSIC] In this module, we are in the process
of discussing the internal structure of hadrons and strong interactions. In this video, we discuss mesons, which are bound states between quarks and
antiquarks. After following this video, you will know
the basic mechanisms that bind quarks and antiquarks to form mesons, and
their excited states and their spectra, which provide information about the nature
and behavior of the binding force. In addition to the baryons and
their resonances, which we have already treated
in the previous video, there are bound states between quarks and
antiquarks which we call mesons. If their quantum numbers are right,
they can be produced in vacuo by a virtual photon,
as shown in this Feynman diagram. For light quarks,
their mass is dominated by binding energy. For heavy quarks, their mass is slightly
lower than the sum of the masses of the corresponding quark pair. An example is the production
of rho mesons, a bound state between light quarks,
which is shown in this Feynman diagram. Resonances can also appear as intermediate
states in hadronic reactions. In this case, there's obviously more
freedom regarding their quantum numbers. In general,
bound states between quarks and antiquarks have a rather short lifetime,
especially if heavy quarks are involved. This is due to the substantial phase
space available for their decay. The energy dependence of
the electron-positron cross section around a resonance generally follows
a Breit-Wigner function, which is shown in this equation. M is the mass and
Gamma is the width of the resonance. The cross section is reduced
to half of its maximum value, sigma_max, for square root of s equal
to M ± Gamma/2. The lifetime of the resonance is
the inverse value of the width, tau is equal to one over gamma. The form of the Breit-Wigner function
resembles the squared amplitude of a classical damped oscillator. Square root of s corresponds to the
frequency of the external periodic force, M to the resonance frequency and
Gamma to the damping factor. The cross section in this analogy
appears as the squared amplitude of the oscillation,
as shown in the graph on the left. For resonances between light quarks,
such as rho and omega, one observes widths from a few MeV to 150
MeV, corresponding to lifetimes between 10^-22 and 10^-24 seconds. They are produced in a resonant manner
by the intermediate photon when the mass of the virtual photon is sufficiently
close to that of the meson. When produced this way they must
obviously have spin one and charge zero, just as the photon does. They decay into pions. Around a mass of about one GeV,
one can produce the Phi resonance, which is an s-sbar bound state,
which decays into strange particles. It's width is narrow,
of the order of 4.4 MeV. Around 3 GeV, we find the J/Psi
resonance, the lowest lying c-cbar bound state, as well as its
excited states, the Psi mesons. Their width are small,
about 90 keV for the J/Psi, itself. Their lifetime is thus long, and the 
e+e- -> hadron cross section is significantly enhanced around the
resonance energy, as shown in this plot. Close to 10 GeV, the Upsilon resonances
are produced, made of b-bbar pairs. We see on the right the 
e+e- -> hadrons cross section around the Upsilon_1s resonance,
and its excited states, Upsilon_2s and Upsilon_3s,
all mesons formed by b-bbar states. The states are distinguished by
the relative angular momentum of the two quarks. The spins are always parallel
to produce a vector meson. The study of resonance states, especially
those of heavy quarks, allow us to better understand the potential generated
by the strong force that binds quarks and antiquarks into mesons, as well as also
the decay mechanisms for heavy quarks. As an example, the figure shows the mass
spectrum and decay scheme of c-cbar and b-bbar resonances. The energy levels indicate that
the potential between two quarks has two terms. The parameter alpha_s, of order of 0.2, is the strong interaction analog of the
electromagnetic fine-structure constant. The first term diminishes with distance. The second term, on the contrary,
grows with distance and keeps the two quarks from being separated. The constant in this confining term
is of the order of 1 GeV/fm. In video 5.4, we will discuss in more
detail the properties of the strong interactions which provide
this binding force. The peaks of the cross section around
resonances invites to build storage rings for the mass production of
the corresponding states. The collider DAFNE in Frascati,
Italy is one such factory dedicated to the production
of Phi resonances. The Beijing e+e- storage ring, BEPC,
produces J/Psi and Psi mesons. The PEP-II collider in
the United States and KEKB in Japan are factories for
the Upsilon and other b-bbar mesons. The systematic decrease of
the width with the mass of the resonance could make you believe that
a t-tbar resonance would be very narrow, and thus have a long lifetime and
a significant cross section. This, however, is not at all the case. The top quark is so heavy, on the order
of 175 GeV, that the phase space for its decay becomes enormous. The t-quark lifetime is
thus extremely short. It decays before it can
even form a bound state. Consequently, there will be hardly
an increase in e+e- cross section at the threshold for
the production of pairs of top quarks. In the next video, Mercedes will
discuss what all of this means for the properties of strong interaction. [MUSIC]