[music] where are we in the course?
well we've seen some stuff about anti-differentation, alright.
we learned how to start with a function, and find a function whose derivative is that original function.
we've also had the sudden change of pace, where we looked at integrals.
we looked at areas under the curves.
and now, i want to take those two seemingly unrelated topics and connect them together.
that's what the fundamental theorem of calculus is, is going to do for us.
alright, the fundamental theorem of calculus, tells us that evaluating integrals really amounts to finding anti-derivatives.
these two seemingly unrelated concepts of differentiation, and integration are really related.
and this is really key insight of calculus as a whole.
i mean think about it, in what sense did newton and leibniz discover calculus.
greek mathematics had these ideas right, greek mathematicians were calculating areas of curved objects by taking limits.
i have formulas for the areas of circles.
and the idea is of slope, okay, predate newton and livenets.
so, what was the insight that, that means that we credit newton and leibniz with discovering calculus?
what really amounts to the fundamental theorem of calculus?
it amounts to this idea that, differentiation and integration are somehow related.
by thinking systematically and precisely, about how a function changes when you wiggle its input, and in particular, thinking about a derivative of the accumulation function.
alright, we're able to see this, this relationship between evaluating a definite integral, and finding an ai derivative.
and i want to do more now, than, than just show you how to calculate integrals, by using the fundamental theorem of calculus.
that will be a big thing too, just the process of computing.
but i hope, that you'll understand some of the reasons why, the fundamental theorem of calculus is true.
so, i want to look at the fundamental theorem of calculus just from a lot of different perspectives.
alright, we should come on away from this, not just with the ability to compute, but also the ability to really communicate sort of an understanding, of this absolutely amazing theorem.
[music] [blank_audio]
