[music].
we dive into thinking more about volume  and length and things, let's just focus a  bit more on area.
so let's find the area inside here.
this orange curve is the graph y equals x  squared, and this red line is just the  horizontal line y equals 1.  so i want to figure out the area of this  region which is below the red line and  above the orange curve.
we already know how to attack a problem  like this.
i take this region and cut it up into a  vertical strips.
alright, i'm going to imagine cutting it  up into a whole bunch of thin rectangles.
and then i just want to add up the areas  of those rectangles integrate.
well to set up the intergral, and i  should say pick a value of x.  and think now, how tall is this thin  rectangle?
well the top edge of the rectangle is at,  1, and the bottom edge is at x squared.
so, the height of this rectangle, here  say, is one minus x squared.
that's the length here, say is 1 minus x  squared.
that's the length here.
what's the width?
well, i'm just going to call that dx.
right, i'm going to imagine that these  rectangles are real thin.
so, now the area of just this one  rectangle is 1 minus x squared, that's  its height times its width dx.
but i don't just want the area of this  one rectangle.
i want to add up the areas of all these  rectangles.
so, i'm going to integrate this from x  goes minus 1 to 1.  alright, and i get those end points by  thinkin about how, small and how large x  can be in this region.
so i put a minus 1 and a 1 there, and  this definite interval will calculate the  area of this region.
and i can calculate that definitne  integral.
let me just copy it down here.
the integral that i want to calculate is  the integral x goes from minus 1 to 1 of  1 minus x squared dx.
and to calculate that integral, it's  enough to use the fundamental theorem of  calculus.
so i'll write down an anti-derivitive.
x minus x cubed over 3 is an  anti-derivitive and then the fundemental  theorum of calculus says evaluate this at  1 and at minus 1 and i take the  difference.
so, i will plug in 1 and i'll get one  minus 1 cubed over 3 and i am going to  subtract what i get when i plug in minus  1 which minus 1 minus, minus 1 cubed over  but what's this, this is 1 minus a third  that's 2 3rd minus, minus 1 plus a 3rd  which is negative 2 3rd, and 2 3rd minus  negative 2 3rd, is 4 3rd.
so the area of this region is 4 3rd  square units, but i could also do this by  cutting the region up into horizontal  strips.
so, here i am cutting this region up into  some horizontal rectangles, which instead  of being thin in terms of their width,  they're now thin in terms of their  height.
i just want to add up all of these not  very tall rectangles to compute the area  of this region.
so to do that i'm going to pick some  value of y and i'm going to think about,  for that value of y, how wide is is that  rectangle?
well let's think about this point over  here, right?
this is the curve y equals x squared.
so for this value of y what's the  corresponding value of x?
well it's the square root of y, and that  tells me how wide this whole rectangle is  right.
and this point over here is negative the  square root of y.  so, from here to here, is 2 square roots  of y, that's the width of, of this  rectangle, let me write that down.
so, i got the width of the rectangle is 2  square roots of y.  now, how tall is that rectangle?
well, let's call that dy, right, i'm  imagining that the rectangle isn't very  tall, really thin.
so the product 2 squared of y its width,  and it's not very tall height d y.  that gives me the area of one of these  thin rectangles and i'm going to  integrate that.
but from where to where?
well, y could be as small as 0 and as big  as 1.  so this integral will calculate the area  of this region, decomposed into  horizontal strips.
i was going to do that integral, but i  can definitely do that, right?
i can do this integral by using the  fundamental theory of calculus.
i just copy that integral down over here.
it would be integrating from 0 to 1, 2  square roots of y dy, l only rewrite that  as the interval from 0 to 1 of 2y to the  1 half power dy.
and now i can write down an  anti-derrivitave of this by using the  power rule.
so an anti-derrivitave is 2y to the 3  halves power, divided by 3 halves.
right, an anti-derivative y to a power,  is y to one more than that power, divided  by one more than that power.
i want to evaluate that at 0, and at 1,  and take the difference.
well, when i plug in 1, i get 2 over 3  over 2.  when i plug in 0 i get 0, so the answer's  2 divided by 3 over 2, which i can  rewrite as 4 3rd, which is the area of  this region.
the neat thing here is that either way,  we're getting the same answer, and i  think this is more amazing than it seems  at first.
i mean look, when i cut it into  horizontal strips i ended up wanting to  calculate this interval, the interval y  goes from 0 to 1 2 square roots of y dy.
and when i cut the region up into these  vertical strips i wanted to do the  interval x goes from minus 1 to 1 of 1  minus x squared dx.
but these two intervals end up being  equal because they're both calculating  the area of the same region, they're both  calculating 4 over 3 square units.
