[MUSIC] In this module, we are discussing
the basics of particle acceleration and detection methods. In this video, you will see how different
technologies are combined to build the two basic types of particle detectors,
spectrometers, and calorimeters. At the end of this video, you will be able
to describe how a spectrometer measures the direction and momentum of a charged
particle in a nondestructive manner. And to describe how a calorimeter measures
the direction and energy of a particle by total absorption. You will also be able to identify
the strength of these two basic methods and their synergy. A magnetic spectrometer is used
to measure the direction and momentum of a particle
with minimal interaction. It is a nondestructive method
to measure these properties. The particle trajectory is measured
in a known magnetic field. For a homogeneous field, the trajectory is
a spiral, a circle in the plane orthogonal to the field, and a straight line
in the direction of the field. The radius of curvature is proportional to
what is called the magnetic rigidity R, which is the ratio between the momentum p,
and the charge Z. R = p/Z, and can be
measured by the product of the radius of curvature and the magnetic field. The magnetic field itself is provided by
a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. Measurements of the path are performed
by an ionization detector, a gas filled wire chamber, for example,
or layers of semiconductor detectors. The tangent to the trajectory
at the entry of the magnet gives the direction of
the incident particle. As an example, here's, again, a photo of
the drift chamber from the L3 experiment at the Large Electron-
Positron collider at CERN as well as a picture of an e+e- annihilation
into hedrons on the right side. The reaction takes place in
the middle of the device, the center of the image on the right. In the central part, you see the tracks of
charged particles in yellow reconstructed from the measured coordinates
indicated by the small green crosses. The curvature is barely visible but well-measured by the high
resolution drift chamber. In this photograph on the left, you see a central detector
made out of silicone sensors, the one that is used by
the ATLAS experiment. The right image is a reconstruction of a
reaction between protons in the middle of the device. The charged particles, which are produced, leave tracks forming circles
orthogonal to the magnetic field. The purpose of a calorimeter
is to measure the energy and direction of particles by absorbing them. The principle of operation
is the following. The incident particle initiates
a shower of particles in the detector, an electromagnetic shower,
or a hadronic shower. The shape, size, and composition of the
shower depends on the incident particle. But also on the detector material,
namely, its radiation length,
its nuclear interaction length. The energy is deposited in the form of
heat, which is not very useful, but also produces detectable signals,
like ionization and excitation by dE/dx, scintillation light,
Cherenkov radiation, etc. This energy is detected by sensors. The resulting signal is proportional to
the total energy deposited by the particle of the shower in the active
medium of the detector. There are two kinds of calorimeters,
homogenous ones with only one material to absorb and detect the shower particles and
layered calorimeters, which use different materials for
interaction, absorption and detection. Here's an example of a layered calorimeter. In such a calorimeter, layers alternate. There are absorption layers made of heavy
materials like copper, lead, or uranium with the short
radiation in direction. Here, particles interact and
form a shower. In the sensitive layers,
the energy lost by dE/dx is recorded. These layers may be
equipped with a gaseous or noble liquid, a proportional chamber,
a semiconductor sensor, or a scintillator. You see here, the electromagnetic
calorimeter of ATLAS which contains absorption layers of lead and steel alternating with
sensitive layers filled with liquid argon. The whole has a shape
resembling an accordion. In a homogenous calorimeter on the other
hand, the two functions are combined. The same material is used as an absorber
and as a detector for deposited energy. Scintillators made of heavy
materials can be used, like bismuth germanate,
BGO, or lead tungstate. Because of the short radiation length and
the transparency of these materials, they are often used to detect
electromagnetic showers. The scintillation light,
emitted by the electrons of the shower, is detected by photomultipliers or
by semiconductor photodiodes, as in this example, which shows you the lead tungstate
calorimeter of the CMS experiment at LHC. Calorimeters are also one of the main
applications of plastic scintillators. The large calorimeter for hadron showers of
the ATLAS experiment is an example. Here, you see a small animation
showing the structure of one of its wedge-shaped slices. It uses scintillated tiles
inserted between steel absorbers to measure the energy of hadrons. The shower develops mainly
in the metal layers. The charged particles it generates produce
scintillation light in the sensitive layers. The scintillation light is
collected by optical fibers and guided to photo detectors. In this way, a three-dimensional
image of the shower is measured, which allows to reconstruct direction and
energy of hadrons. But also the Cherenkov effect allows
to build complete detectors. The Super-Kamiokande Detector in Japan
consists of a huge cylindrical tank, which contains 50,000
tons of ultra pure water. When a charged particle passes through
the water at the speed beyond that of the speed of light in water, which is
about 75% of the speed of light in vacuum, a cone of light is emitted. This cone is intercepted by an array
of photomultipliers distributed on the walls. They detect an ellipse of photons, which
allows to reconstruct the direction and velocity of the particle. Lateral and longitudinal segmentation
allows to distinguish between hadrons and particles, which interact only via the
electromagnetic force, like electrons and photons, or muons. As a general rule, one can say that electromagnetic
showers are short, slim and regular. Hadronic showers are penetrating,
wide, and irregular. Because of the different characteristics
of electromagnetic and hadronic showers, they are often two calorimeters,
a fine grain electromagnetic one and a coarser hadron calorimeter. But it is the synergy between
different detector types that allows to both identify particles and
measure their direction and energy. This is further explained
in optional video 3.10a, which shows how the ATLAS
detector at LHC works. In the next video, we will show which
types of particle detectors are developed and produced in our laboratories
at the University of Geneva. [MUSIC]