we have covered a lot in this course.
and as we have discussed, data can come in many different forms.
but despite the heterogeneity of data, there are some basic data management best practices that can help researchers do better research.
we hope that this course was helpful not only to researchers who are needing to actively manage their data and share it at the end of a project but also for information professional who are supporting researchers.
as we have covered in this course, research data management is most effective when it takes place throughout the research data life cycle, and the first step should include writing a data management plan.
as we discussed, writing a dmp is not only best practice, but it is increasingly required by funding agencies.
after discussing dmps and some useful dmp tools, the folks at the university of edinburgh covered some best practices related to organizing data, file formats and transformations, and storage and security that can help when researchers are actively working with their data.
we also discuss the benefits of sharing data, including promoting new research and collaborations.
allowing for the verification and replication of original results and enhancing the visibility of research projects.
these are just a few of the benefits, and while the benefits can be numerous we also covered various challenges to sharing data from the effort it takes to prepare data for sharing, to the lack of incentives for sharing data within the current academic culture.
finally, we went over the role of trusted repositories in curating, archiving and preserving data to make sure it remains accessible, and understandable for the long term.
all of the cradle team would like to thank you for participating in this course.
we would also like to thank the institute of museum and library services for sponsoring the creation of this mook.
and finally we would like to thank sarah jones from the digital curation center, adina and the data library at the university of edinburgh for their contributions.
if you would like to continue your data management education, we would encourage you to check out the programs offered at the school of information and library science here at unc, including our post master certificate in data curation.
and our forth coming professional science masters in digital curation.
likewise, the odum institute at unc provides data management services to researchers that can help ease their burden as well as training information professionals and researchers in data management and curation best practices.
check out the resources for additional information on other data management training and education opportunities.
bye and thanks for participating.
[music]
