[music] we want to capture precise  information about how wiggling the input  effects the output.
here's the difinition of derivative that  will allow us to do exactly that.
the derivative of f at the point x is  defined to be this limit.
the limit of f(x+h)-f(x)/h as h  approaches 0.  now, when this limit exists, i'm going to  say the function is differentiable,  alright?
if the derivative of f exists at the  point x, i'm going to to say the function  is differentiable at that point x.  sometimes, you'll see different  definitions of the derivative.
here's an equivalent one.
the derivative of f at x could  equivalently be defined as this limit,  the limit as w approaches x of f(w)-f(x)  all over w-x.
now, how does this definition relate to  our original definition of derivative?
the derivative of f at x is this limit  involving h.  well, look.
in both cases, the numerators are  measuring how the output is changing.
here, i'm plugging in a nearby input and  i'm looking at how much the output  changed compared to the output at x.  and h is measuring exactly how much that  input changed by.
here, i'm again measuring the difference  of two output values.
here, w is my new output value, which is  close to x.  alright, down here, h is just measuring  how much i wiggled x by.
here, w is actually just some nearby  value of x.  and in both cases, the denominator is  measuring how much the input was changed.
here, h is exactly how much the input was  changed by.
here, w-x is measuring how much the input  changed by.
the other thing that makes  these definitions sometimes a little bit  tricky is that people will give you a  definition that's not at the point of x.  for instance, here's a definition of the  derivative of f at the point a.  it's the limit of f(x)-f(a)/x-a as x  approaches a.  you can compare the first and the third  definitions here.
this first one has a w and an x and w is  approaching x to get the derivative at x.  this bottom one, i'm trying to compute  the derivative at a and x is approaching  a, alright?
so, the roles of w and x and  the role of x and a are somehow analogous  here.
now, think back to when we were talking  about continuity last week.
we started out with a definition of  continuity at a single point and then we  expanded that definition to be continuity  on a whole interval.
we played the same game with the  derivative.
here we go.
if the derivative of f exists at x,  whenever x is between a and b, but not at  a, or at b, we won't worry about that,  just whenever x is between a and b.  and if this happens, then, we say that f  is differentiable on the interval (a,b).
so, as a little bit of a warning here,  this is not a point.
this is an interval.
it's all the numbers between a and b,  not including a,  not including b.  now, contrast this with continuity,  when we talked about continuity on an  interval,  i also had separate definitions for  continuity and closed intervals or  half-open intervals.
but that doesn't really make so much  sense for the derivative.
here's why.
the derivative is measuring how much  wiggling x affects f(x).
and if i'm standing in the middle of an  interval, i can wiggle x.  even if i'm standing pretty close to b or  pretty close to a, i can always wiggle  just a little bit to the left and a  little bit to the right, no matter how  close i'm standing to a or how close i'm  standing to b, unless i'm standing, say,  at the point b.  if i'm standing right at b, i can wiggle  to the left.
but i can't wiggle at all to the right  without walking right outside of the  interval.
so, in light of this, i don't really want  to talk about differentiability on closed  intervals.
i only want to talk about  differentiablity when i can honestly talk  about wiggling the input and that's only  true on open intervals.
there's plenty of other subtleties to  this.
if i differentiate a function which is  differentiable on a whole interval, then  i get a new function, f'.
specifically,  the derivative of f at the point x will  be written like this, f with this little  tick mark, and we're going to pronounce  that prime, f'(x).
the point here is that i can define the  derivative, right, as this limit of this  quotient.
and when you think of it this way, if  this is really a function, right?
this is  a rule that defines some new function, so  i can regard f'(x) not just as a specific  values that i get by plugging specific  values of x, but honestly as a function.
alright.
this thing is the sort of thing i can  plug any value of x into and see what i  get out.
it's a function that somehow derived from  f.  maybe hence, the name derivative.
there's a whole bunch of different  notation that you're going to see for the  derivative in the wild.
here are some of these.
alright, the derivitive of f at the point  x might be written as f'(x), like we've  just been seeing.
or it might be written d/dxf(x) or  dxf(x), or a bunch of other things,  right?
lots of different people have their  favorite notation for these.
but really, this f' notation and this  d/dx notation are what we're going to be  using in this course.
there are upsides and downsides to these  various choices of notation.
for instance, here's a huge upside to  this d/dx notation.
it's really emphasizing that the  derivative is a ratio, right?
it looks  like df, the change in the output, dx,  the change in the input, somehow  revealing a little bit of how the  derivative is actually defined.
the f'(x) notation doesn't emphasize that  the derivative is a ratio, but it does  emphasize the derivative is a function.
when we use the f'(x) notation, at least  you can tell this thing is a function.
you've clearly labeled the input, x.  differentiating gives a new function,  even the name suggests that.
the derivative is somehow derived from  the original function.
and if the derivative is now a function,  you can then differentiate the  derivative.
and differentiate that, and keep on  going.
and dig deeper and deeper and deeper,  trying to uncover more and more secrets  about the original function,  f.  all of that is yet to come.
but the point is just that there's so  much yet to explore.
[music]
