[music] now that we know what data management is, and who the people involved are, we will now show you where specific data management practices fall within the research lifecycle.
to do this, we're going to use the research lifecycle from the data documentation initiative, or ddi.
during the initial phase of the research lifecycle, that is the discovery and planning phase, researchers will need to determine what type and format of data they are going to collect.
this may involve collecting new data, combining existing data sets or analyzing existing data.
if the project involves human subjects, the researches will need to consider privacy, confidentiality, and other ethical issues.
in addition, researchers should consider what types of documentation they will create and the metadata standards they will use to describe their data.
these are some of the details that should be included in the data management plan.
further, researchers will need to identify the potential reusers of the project data.
who will use this data?
what might they use it for?
will the data, once stripped of any potentially identifying information, be useful for secondary reuse?
what access restrictions will be placed on the data?
these are all questions that the researchers need to answer before the project even begins.
contacting an information professional early in the research life cycle can assist researchers in answering these questions.
as well as identifying appropriate data repository, to archive their data.
finally, during this phase, it is important for researchers to determine the possible costs surrounding data management.
this will involve documenting the data, formatting them, storing them, cleaning and anonymizing them, and finally archiving them.
during the data collection phase, primary researchers make certain that the research team follows data management best practices.
at this point, this can include file organization, backup and storage strategies, as well as quality assurance protocols.
deciding on file organization schemes including naming conventions and file versioning policies at the very beginning will help make the data collection process run smoothly.
this will decrease the likelihood of duplicate or out-of-sync versions of the data.
you will also make locating specific documents and files at the end of the project much easier and decrease the risk of losing content.
backup and storage strategies will be implemented through the data collection process.
as we know, technology is not always a 100% reliable.
if a researcher has appropriate backup and storage strategies in place, this will help protect against data loss from the beginning of the project.
it is best to discuss options for secure backup and storage with the institution's it department.
quality assurance protocols outline and document the steps and processes necessary for checking and reviewing the data during and after it is collected.
these protocols vary across disciplines and it is the responsibility of the primary researcher and the project team to implement these protocols based on disciplinary standards.
it is also a good idea to consider access controls and data security during this phase of the lifecycle.
while working with the it department, make sure to inform them of any security concerns or needs.
if the data is sensitive then the appropriate steps will need to be taken to ensure that they are safely stored and only accessible to authorized individuals.
next is the preparation and data analysis phase.
after collecting data, it may not be in a form that can be readily analyzed.
researchers may need to clean, manipulate or process the raw data.
what is important at this point is documenting the changes to the raw data and creating a master version to be analyzed and eventually archived.
a common tip here is to make the final version of the data read-only.
so it can't be inadvertently altered.
once the master version of the data has been prepared, data analysis can begin.
data analysis can take many forms across disciplines.
the most important thing to consider in this phase is making sure to document analysis procedures such as additional modifications to the data, the model used, the code used to run the analysis, and hardware and software specifications.
having this detailed information will help researchers write a better paper and do better science.
during the publication and sharing phase, a researcher will prepare their data files and other research materials necessary to interpret and reuse the data in the future.
data management best practices dictate that data be stored and made available to share in a trustworthy data repository.
this phase is an opportunity to consult with information professionals or data repository staff.
who can provide guidance as you prepare data for sharing.
researchers should make sure that their data management meets all of the needs and requirements of the repository.
this means that the data should be in the appropriate file format, should be cleaned to the specifications of the repository, and to comply with applicable privacy laws and requirements.
additionally, all documentation should be reviewed to ensure that the data can be reused and standard metadata should be applied.
by working with a data repository, researchers can ensure that data will be properly preserved.
discoverable, and usable in the future.
the end of the project can seem like a bit of a blur and a time crunch.
but by following data management best practices throughout the research life cycle, you can rest assured that your data will be available for the long term.
at this point your data are safely stored in a data repository.
and you can begin planning for your next project.
some key repository functions got ensure the long term management of data include ensuring the integrity of the data.
protecting against data loss.
and providing access to data.
these and other functions performed by trusted repositories will be discussed in more depth later in this course.
we covered a lot of data management topics in this module, but what is most important to take away is that effective data management takes places in all phases of the research lifecycle.
from planning a project, to collecting your data, to comparing and analyzing your data, and then finally publishing and sharing your data in a repository that will see to their long-term management and preservation.
[music]
