[MUSIC] In this module, we touch the basics
of particle exhilaration and detection matters. And in this fourth video, we will show how heavy charged
particles interact with matter. These interaction mechanisms
are used to detect them. At the end of the video, you will know
the energy loss by ionization and excitation of heavy charged particles. And the distribution of the energy
loss for these particles and their angular deviation when
traversing a slice of material. To detect particles, one must make
them obviously interact with matter. With the exception of neutrinos,
all particles interact in one way or another via the electromagnetic force. Hadrons, obviously, also interact
via the strong or the nuclear force. Electromagnetic interactions thus play
a predominant role among the mechanisms of interaction and particle detection. Its different reactions are listed here. We will discuss them in this video and
the one that follows. When a charged particle passes through
a slice of material of thickness dx, it ionizes or excites the atoms it meets. By this, the particle loses
the part dE of its energy. The energy lost per unit length, dE/dx, plays a central role in
the detection of stable charged particles. It depends on both the properties of
the particle such as its charge z and its velocity beta, as well as
the properties of the material crossed, like the volume density n_e
of its electrons, which is proportional to the atomic
charge and its ionization constant I, which describes how easy
it is to ionize its atoms. The dependence of dE/dx on
these factors is described by the Bethe-Bloch formula reproduced
on the top of this slide. One can combine many of the constants
into a single one which is called K in this slide. Thus, it can be seen that at low velocity
dE/dx is proportional to the charge of the particle squared and inversely proportional to
the square of its velocity. The energy loss goes
through a shallow minimum, located approximately at the same
velocity for all particles. In this minimum,
particles are called minimum ionizing. Because of the strong dependence
on the square of the charge, we can even identify the charge of the
incident particle by measuring dE/dx. Beyond the minimum, the energy
loss dE/dx increases slightly with the logarithm of beta gamma equal
to p/m, as shown in this graph. Here's a summary of dE/dx
in typical gases, liquids, and metals as presented by
the particle data group. The minimum of the curves is
approximately at the same velocity for all the materials. It is surprising that the curves for
solids are below that for gas. Do not forget that the energy loss
is given here with respect to the surface density. To find dE/dx in units of penetrated
depth, one must multiply by the volume density of the material which is a 150
times greater full lead than for hydrogen. The beta gamma scale, the x-axis of
this graph, is converted to momentum from neurons, charged pions and
protons to simplify the use of this graph. Obviously, the energy
loss by ionization and excitation is a random process, which
will not always yield the same result. Therefore, dE in a given
material thickness dx follows a Landau distribution. This is an asymmetric distribution
around the most probable value E_W with a width characterized by xi. The most probable energy loss is
derived from the Bethe-Bloch formula. Since dE/dx increases with decreasing
velocity, the particle loses more and more energy per unit depth
while penetrating the material. The greatest loss happens immediately
before the particle is stopped. This is called the Bragg Peak. The effect may be beneficial
in medical applications. When irradiating tissue by charged
particles, one can adjust the initial momentum and thus, the penetration such
that most of the energy is deposited where a cancerous tumor is located,
preserving healthy tissue around. Multiple scattering off
atomic electrons also deflect the incident particle from its initial
direction and displaces its path. The distribution of angular deflection
follows a Gaussian around zero. The width depends on particle and
material properties as shown. The latter can be combined
into the radiation length, X_0, which we will introduce
later in this module. Hadrons, of course, also belong
to the class of heavy particles. In addition to
electromagnetic interactions, they can interact with matter nuclei
through strong or nuclear interactions. Elastic scattering makes them
lose energy to a lesser extent because nuclei are typically heavy and
recoil little. Inelastic interactions occur at high
energies and create additional particles. These deposit energy by dE/dx, but
can also, in turn, produce more particles. At sufficient energy, typically,
a few GeV, this will generate a cascade process
which is called a hadron shower. You see in this image a simulation
of such a process with an incoming high-energy proton. Each block dot represents a unit of
energy loss by a charged particle. The characteristic
lengths of this processes are the nuclear collision lengths
applying to elastic interactions and the nuclear interaction length
applying to inelastic interactions. Both can be found in the tables
of the Particle Data Group. They are typically much larger than
the radiation length of the material. In the next video, we talk about
the interactions of light particles in general, and bremsstrahlung in particular. [MUSIC]