[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to this fourth module of our introductory course on subatomic physics. This module starts a series of three
modules, where we talk about the three fundamental forces described by the standard
model of particles physics. During this first module,
we go into more details about the electromagnetic interactions and
their properties. You will notice that
the intellectual challenge, and also the mathematical levels is slightly
higher than in previews modules. But in this first video,
we will remind you how to describe the intensity of the reaction using the
cross section and the decay rate, so that you are up to speed
with the rest of the course. After following this video, you will know
the relation between the reaction rate and the cross section. Also, the relation between the decay rate,
and the lifetime of a particle. And how the probability amplitude for
a process enters into all these notions. So, we now resume our discussion
of scattering and decay processes. To characterize these processes, we need
a quantity which measures the intensity of a reaction or, in the context of
quantum mechanics, its probability. This quantity is the cross section sigma
that we introduced in video 1.3 for scattering processes, and it's analog for
decays, which is called the decay rate. Both quantities measure the ratio
of the number of scatters or decays, that actually take place, to
the number that would have been possible, that could have taken place. If this were a game, we would speak
of this probability as the ratio between the successes and
the trials of the game. We have already seen that the unit for
the cross section is a bit surprising, it is a surface. We will see that for
the decay rate, it is an energy. This is due to using the system of natural
units that we have introduced in video 1.2a. If you are still somewhat uneasy with
the construction an interpretation of Feynman diagrams, like the ones
that you see behind me, – on the left for a scattering process on the right for a decay process – you should follow the optional video 4.1a. As quantum physics takes
a statistical approach, the basic problem of particle
physics is the measurement and calculation of the probability for
a process. Both calculation and
measurement use the cross section to express this probability
independently of experimental details. We consider here a four-body
reaction a + b -> c + d. If each target particle b
has a cross section sigma, which represents the probability to hit
it, the rate of scatters per second will be proportional to the incident flux of
projectiles and the number of targets. The cross action is thus defined as
the reaction rate per target particle, normalized to the flux of projectiles. It represents the intensity of a reaction
independent of exponential parameters. The proportionality factor
between the cross section and the rate of interaction
is called luminosity. The laboratory frame,
the flux of project ions I_a, that is to say their number per unit surface
and per unit time is equal to their volume density times their velocity relative to the targets b,
which are at rest. The luminosity L is the product of this
flux, and the number of targets N_b. In a colliding beam experiment on the
country, the luminosity is the product of the number of projectiles and targets
per bunch, N_a and N_b, multiplied by the crossing frequency f and divided by
the surface, that is common to the two beams. The unit of the cross section is the barn. In high energy reactions, we rather find cross section of
the order of the nanobarn, or even picobarn. The smallest known cross sections
are those of neutrinos, of the order of attobarn. As far as decays are concerned,
the description is quite similar. There's of course no projectiles, so we only consider
the particles b in the initial state. We normalize the number of decays
per second to their current number N_b, to find the decay rate Gamma. It is the inverse of the lifetime tau_b. The decay rate Gamma has
the dimension of an energy. It is also called
the width of the particle, because it corresponds to the uncertainty
in the mass of b particles. Therefore, it can be measured either
by measuring the lifetime of the particle, or by observing the width of the invariant
mass distribution of its decay products. As the decay rate is a constant,
we find an exponential law for the number of remaining
particles at time t. Consequentially, also, the absolute number of decay in time
interval ∆t decreases exponentially. If several decay channels exist, the lifetime
observed in each channel is of course the same, but
the decay rate depends on the channel. One thus defines a partial decay
rate Gamma_i, for each channel i. By probability conservation the sum
is equal to the total width Gamma. The branching ratio Gamma_i/Gamma expresses the relative probability of observing
channel i, among all decay channels. Analogous to the differential
cross section, one can also measure
the differential decay rate, dGamma/dOmega,
depending on the solid angle. Let us think for a moment. If, for a decay with multiple decay
channels, we only observe one channel i. Is the time evolution determined by Gamma,
or is it determined by Gamma_i? Well, it is, of course,
determined by Gamma. Since the lifetime of the particle
is independent of the decay channel, that it will choose. In the next video,
we will apply the concept of cross section to elementary
electromagnetic interactions. [MUSIC]