[MUSIC] In this fourth module, we are in the
process of discussing the properties of electromagnetic interactions. And in this fifth video,
we discuss the annihilation of electron-positron pairs
into pairs of fermions. After following this video, you will know
the main properties of the process of e+ e- annihilation into lepton pairs, and also the peculiarities of their
annihilation into hadrons. The annihilation of electron-positron
pairs into pairs of photons that Mercedes has introduced int the previous video
is not the only annihilation reaction. There's a whole class of reactions
of electron-positron annihilation into fermion-antifermion pairs and
the example is shown here. We do not include the reaction
e+ e- -> e+ e-, which is complicated by a second
scattering diagram where the two electrons exchange a photon rather than annihilate. Let us take the creation of
pairs of muons as a prototype. In the center-of-mass frame the final
state is characterized by two muons with equal and opposite momentum. Having no strong interactions and being too heavy to cause
electromagnetic showers, muons penetrate all the material in the
detector, just losing energy by dE/dx. The total cross section again exhibits
the well known factors, alpha squared in the nominator and s, the square of the
characteristic energy, in the denominator. These are the characteristic factors for electromagnetic reactions
between point-like particles. The cross section for tau production,
e+ e- -> tau+ tau-, is the same, far from threshold, that is to say,
at s, much larger than m_tau^2. The differential cross section is
symmetric with respect to the sign of the scattering angle theta,
if one neglects the masses, s >> 4 m_µ^2. The figure shows the angular distribution
at high energy, the dashed lines indicate the shape of the symmetric distribution
predicted by quantum electrodynamics. The solid lines include an asymmetric term
that comes from electro-weak interference. The angular distribution in fact
shows a deviation from symmetry that increases with energy. It is due to the interference
with weak interactions that we will treat in module 6. This prototype cross-section applies to
all annihilation reactions which produce a fermion pair of negligible mass and
charge ±e. The coupling constant is hidden
in the fine structure constant, alpha = e^2/(4π). Again, an identical angular distribution
is observed for the reaction e+ e -> tau+ tau- at energies much larger
than the threshold for this reaction. Let us now turn to pair production
of quarks, or rather quark-antiquark pairs by e+ e- annihilation. Here we must consider
two important changes. First, quarks carry electric charge,
either +2/3 for u, c and t quarks or
-1/3 for d, s, and b quarks,
relative to the elementary charge e. As the quark charge comes in at
only one of the two vertices, we must introduce a factor Q_i^2 in
the cross section for each quark type i. Second, quarks are produced with
three color charges, red, green or blue, charges that are responsible for
the strong interactions but to which electromagnetic
interactions are insensitive. The color of quarks is another example of
the property of the final state which is observable only in principle. We have no way to measure it, but it distinguishes nevertheless final states
corresponding to different colors. We must therefore add the amplitudes
squared or the cross-sections. These are obviously independent of color,
and for each flavor we obtain a cross-section which depends
only on the electric charge, but is three times larger than
if the object had no color. The mass of quarks is negligible for u,
d, and s, but not for the heavy quarks c, b, and especially t. For them, their production thresholds,
as indicated on the bottom of the slide, in the inclusive cross section
e+ e- -> q qbar, there are steps at these thresholds. Quarks in the final state are not
observed as such, because of their strong interaction which starts
acting as soon as they are produced. The color field that is established
between them is so energetic that additional quark-
antiquark pairs spontaneously pop-up and cluster around the primordial
quark as hadronic jets. You see an example in this picture
from the L3 experiment at LEP. The jets follow the initial
direction of the quark. Their total energy is that of the quarks. The multiplicity of charged and
neutral particles inside each jet is high. Each quark forms at least one
jet such that the event contains at least two of them. We will come back to the jet phenomenon
in module 5 when we discuss strong interactions. Because of the conversion
of quarks into hadrons, we cannot necessarily
differentiate their flavor either. We consider therefore often the inclusive
hadron cross section sigma(e+ e- -> hadrons), which to first order is given by
the sum of the individual cross sections. This again because in principle,
flavor allows to distinguish them. You may wonder if the conversion
of quarks into hadron jets does not change the cross-section. This is not the case
because as far as we know, this conversion is always happening,
it has probability one. In other words, the quarks are always, and
without residues, converted into hadrons. The cross section thus does not change. To compensate for the important reduction with the square of
the energy, proportional to 1/s, of the electron positron cross-section,
we often form the ratio R of the hadronic cross-section to that of our reference
process, e+ e- -> µ+ µ-. The sum includes all flavors,
as indicated in this equation, that can be produced at the given
energy in the center of mass frame. To first order in the different
energy regions we just obtain simple ratios of whole numbers. At each threshold there is a step in
the cross section because a new channel opens up. This figure compares the rough calculation
that we just did to a compilation of experimental results from
the particle data group. The data comes from experiments at various
e+ e- colliders, at different energies. We see the gross features of
the cross section as predicted, including a small step
at the quark threshold. But the measured cross section
are significantly larger than the simple fractions we have just calculated. This is again due to higher
order contributions. We will see in the next module that
final states with additional gluons add some 10% to the total
inclusive hadron cross-section. At high energies, above few tens of GeV, we see the
influence of the weak neutral interaction. The exchange of its intermediate boson, the Z boson, dominates the total
cross section at these energies, and causes the big peak that you
see on the right of this graph. We will see much more
of this in module 6. But before that, in the next module
we'll discuss strong interactions and hadronic structure. [MUSIC]