[MUSIC] In this sixth module,
we are discussing weak interactions. In this second video, we introduce
the operations of charge conjugation, parity, and time reversal. After following this video, you will know
discrete transformations of space time, which are parity and time reversal,
the charge conjugation transformation, which reverses all charges, and
the behavior of forces and matter under these transformations.
The reversals of space and time directions are discrete
transformations of space-time coordinates. For the space coordinates, the transformation is also
called the parity, P. Both transformations can be applied
as operators to a quantum state such as a particle. These operators are unitary,
because a double application to the initial state
reproduce the original state. Therefore the eigenvalues of
the two operators are plus or minus 1 if they are applied to
eigenstates of parity or time reversal. However, there are many wave functions
which are not eigenstates of parity. For example, a function phi
equal to cos x + sin x becomes under the application
of parity cos x - sin x, which is neither +phi nor -phi. Eigenstates of P can be
classified like in this table. Scalar wave functions describe the spin
zero particles with positive parity. Pseudoscalar ones describe spin
zero particles with parity minus. Vector and axial vector wave
functions describe the spin one particles with parity negative and
positive respectively. Parity is a multiplicative quantum number,
so the total parity of a system in its ground state is the product of
the individual parities of its components. If there is an angular momentum
between the components, characterized by am l-type
quantum number, it must be taken into account by
a factor (-1)^l. Parity is conserved in interaction due to
electromagnetic and strong forces, but not in weak interactions. Conservation means that if a system is
in an eigenstate before the reaction, it will be in an eigenstate with
the same eigenvalue after the reaction. For bound states, the total angular
momentum, J=l + s, comes in, multiplying the intrinsic
parity of the components. Consequently, the notation J^P is
used to characterize particles. You find it in the PDG tables for
each particle. Electromagnetic transitions in bound
states, as the hydrogen atom for example, require that ∆l ± 1. So the parity of the photon
must be -1. The photon is thus indeed a vector
particle, as we noted in module 4. Hadrons are parity eigenstates,
thus their parity eigenvalues can be used to characterize a particle, just like
spin, electric charge or baryon number. The parity of fermions is
opposite to that of antifermions. By convention, parities are arbitrarily
fixed to +1 for leptons and quarks, and antiquarks and antileptions,
therefore, have parity -1. For bosons, the parity is the same for
particles and antiparticles. The photon parity,
as we already said, is -1. Baryons which contain three quarks
without a relative quantum angular momentum, such as the proton and neutron,
have a parity (+1)^3, so, finally, parity +1. That is to say that J^P is (1/2)^+. The lightest mesons,
such as pions as well as light kaons, contain quark and
antiquark with anti parallel spins. They have parity (+1)(-1), so -1, and they are called pseudoscalar mesons. The states with the same quark
contents but parallels spins, like the mesons rho, K^*, omega,
and Phi are called vector mesons. They have J^P equal to 1^-. But parity is not just
a theoretical concept, it has a measurable effect whenever it
corresponds to a conserved observable. Let us look at the dominant decay of
the π^0, which goes into photons. The study of this process
has allowed to conclude that π^0 is a pseudoscalar boson
with J^P = 0^-. Its decay products are two photons,
vector boson of J^P = 1^-. We project spins on the
only natural axis of the system, given by the direction of the two
photons in the rest frame of the π^0. Conservation of angular momentum requires one of the two configurations sketched
here, or a combination of both. The first configuration has two photons in
a right circular polarization state. The second has the left polarized photons. Under parity, the momentum of the two
photons change sign but their spin, being pseudovectors, do not change. So the parity operation changes
the first configuration into the second one, and vice versa. The photon wave function is characterized
by its polarization vector epsilon, which points in the direction
of the electric field, and for real photons is normal to
the direction of motion. As parity is conserved in decay process, this requires that the total wave function
psi be an eigenstate of parity. Up to a normalization constant,
the two possibilities correspond to the wave function psi_1 and
psi_2, given here. The first is proportional to a scalar,
so it has parity +1. The angle phi between the two polarization
planes will be preferentially zero, with an intensity distribution
proportional to the square of cosine phi. The second is proportional to the product
between a pseudovector and a vector. So it has parity -1. The angle phi between the polarization
planes of the two photons will be preferentially 90 degrees. Experimentally, it is found that
they are indeed orthogonal. The party of the π^0
is therefore -1. The charge conjugation operator,
indicated by C, is an example of a transformation of
the field itself and not of coordinates. It transforms the wave
function of a particle, phi_P, into the wave function
of its antiparticle, phi_pbar. The operation therefore changes the sign
of electric charge, color, baryon, and lepton number, in short, all the quantum
numbers of the charge type. Thus the operator C applied to
a fermion gives an antifermion, with all charges opposite,
with the same mass, the same spin, and the same momentum. Again electromagnetic and strong
interactions conserve charge conjugation. That is to say that this interactions have the same intensity for
particles and anti-particles. Weak interactions on the contrary
violate C, so they distinguish between the particles and
the anti-particles. Particles which do not have any
charge can be eigenstates of C. They are their own anti-particles. The photon and the Z boson are examples. The pseudoscalar meson π^0,
which is also its own anti-particle, has C phi_pi = phi_pi,
with eigenvalue C = +1. Since the photon is
generated by moving charges, which change sign of
the electric charge under C, C A_µ = -A_µ. So charge conjugation is another
multiplicative quantum number. A system of n photons will have
a C equal to (-1)^n. For example, π^0 decay into two
photons respects the conservation of C, but π^0 decay into
three photons is forbidden. Indeed, the branching
ratio of this decay is measured to be less than
3.1 10^-8. Time reversal operation, indicated by T, transforms the coordinate for
four-vector x, so (t,x,y,z) into x’ = (-t,x,y,z). When applied to a field, T also turns
them into their complex conjugate, and this is necessary because of the
transformation of the equation of motion. Except for real boson fields,
there are no eigenstates of T alone. So no conserved quantum number associated. The importance of T is rather in combination
with the other discrete transformations, parity and charge conservation. One can easily understand that all
the local fields theories must be invariant under the joint action of CPT,
transforming a process into itself. We will see what follows
that weak interaction violated to a maximum extent
the symmetry C and P, and even the combined operation CP,
which transforms right handed fermions into a left hand antifermions,
is not respected by weak interactions. This introduces a small difference
between a reaction and its reverse. It gives an objective direction to time. We will introduce weak
interactions in the next video. [MUSIC]