[SOUND]. 
Hi, welcome to Lesson 1 of Creative Programming for Digital Media and Mobile 
Apps. I'm Mick, and this is Matt and Marco. 
And we're going to take you through six individual lessons starting with this 
week, which is all about the basics of drawing and the basics of sound. 
So, first of all, we need to know how to manipulate graphics and draw them to the 
screen and we also need to know how images are represented on the screen. 
Marco is going to take you through that, and he's also going to give you a 
introduction on how to use processing for making desktop applications. 
Matt's going to take you through how to control sound and how to find and play 
back sounds from the internet. He's also going to talk a little bit 
about manipulating sound, and how sound is represented in the computer. 
In addition, he's going to show you a little about how to run applications that 
we develop on Android phones. And then, I'm going to take you through 
the basics of using Apple devices. And after that, I'm going to show you how 
to make a basic app with simple interactions, like mouse and touch 
interaction. That plays back different sounds in 
different ways. And also changes the way that certain 
types of images are drawn. So, that's really what this lesson is 
about. It's kind of easing you in to the whole 
idea of making creative applications. And if you've got any questions, you can 
check the forums. We'll be looking out for any of you who 
have particular issues. It's always a bit difficult getting 
started running software for the first time. 
So, we've got a whole load of examples that you can download from the Coursera 
website. We're going to be referring to them 
throughout the next six weeks starting this week. 
So, make sure that before you ask questions, you have a look on the 
documentation that we've put on the website. 
There's a lot there. There are also people who are going to be 
on the forums, expecting you to ask good, relevant questions. 
And hopefully, if you are stuck, then we'll be able to sort that out. 
So I think we're going to start off with Marco. 
I think he's going to do some graphics, and then move on to Matt, and then I'll 
be seeing you later on. [MUSIC].