[music].
for this course, we'll be using a  programming environment called  processing, developed at mit.
it's a fantastic environment to learn to  program in, but in particular it's a  fantastic environment in which to create  a program in, because it makes it very  simple from the very beginning to do  highly graphical, audio-based, and  interactive software.
this is the processing window in which  you run the processing program.
the first thing you'll notice is there's  a nice play button.
if we hit play, we get a program.
it's not a very instant program, it's a  very small window and it doesn't really  do anything.
that's not surprising, we haven't written  anything to put in the code.
this main editor window is where we write  codes and i'm going to give an example of  some codes that you might want to write.
so i'm going to set the size of the  screen with two numbers and set the  background color.
i'll come back later to exactly what  these things mean.
but for now we need to know that we've  changed the size of the screen, made it  bigger.
and we've gone and changed the background  to red.
over the next couple of weeks, we'll be  looking at some much more complicated  programs that really use the full power  of processing, but for now, i wanted to  show you how to write a very simple  program.
an important part of this course is that  it's not just about writing processing  programs for the desktop, but processing  can be used on mobile devices, android  devices, ios devices, and on the web.
and in a minute, mathew and mick are  going to show you how to do that.
and mick is going to go through a more  complex example that we're going to  explain throughout the course of this  weeks lecture.
the last thing i want to say is that if  you're used to programming and have had  some experience in java you'll find  processing very familiar because it's  based on java.
but even if you have programmed before in  say javascript or php it won't be too  hard to learn.
if you've never done any programming  before don't worry.
but have a look at some of the additional  lectures i've posted that will introduce  programming from the very beginning  [music].
