[MUSIC]. 
For this course, we'll be using a programming environment called 
Processing, developed at MIT. It's a fantastic environment to learn to 
program in, but in particular it's a fantastic environment in which to create 
a program in, because it makes it very simple from the very beginning to do 
highly graphical, audio-based, and interactive software. 
This is the Processing window in which you run the Processing program. 
The first thing you'll notice is there's a nice Play button. 
If we hit Play, we get a program. It's not a very instant program, it's a 
very small window and it doesn't really do anything. 
That's not surprising, we haven't written anything to put in the code. 
This main editor window is where we write codes and I'm going to give an example of 
some codes that you might want to write. So I'm going to Set the size of the 
screen with two numbers and set the background color. 
I'll come back later to exactly what these things mean. 
But for now we need to know that we've changed the size of the screen, made it 
bigger. And we've gone and changed the background 
to red. Over the next couple of weeks, we'll be 
looking at some much more complicated programs that really use the full power 
of processing, but for now, I wanted to show you how to write a very simple 
program. An important part of this course is that 
it's not just about writing processing programs for the desktop, but processing 
can be used on mobile devices, android devices, iOS devices, and on the Web. 
And in a minute, Mathew and Mick are going to show you how to do that. 
And Mick is going to go through a more complex example that we're going to 
explain throughout the course of this weeks lecture. 
The last thing I want to say is that if you're used to programming and have had 
some experience in Java you'll find processing very familiar because it's 
based on Java. But even if you have programmed before in 
say JavaScript or PHP it won't be too hard to learn. 
If you've never done any programming before don't worry. 
But have a look at some of the additional lectures I've posted that will introduce 
programming from the very beginning [MUSIC].