In this video I'm going
to look at five things. But don't worry,
it's not going to take me too long. First of all, I'm just going to have
a quick chat about what is a function. Then we're going to look
at the setup function and the draw function in processing. We're going to find out how we can make
animation by looking at mouse interaction. Then we're going to look at how we can
use mouse interaction in another way, using the mouseDragged function. So, first of all, what is a function? Well a function is simply a way of creating a block of code which
we're going to run later in time. Okay, so instead of just something
like this, where we call background. Actually, background is a function, right? And we're calling background, but
we're not defining what background is, we're just telling it how to run. And so what we're going to do in this
video is actually define some functions. And the functions we're going to
define are called setup and draw, and they are special
functions in processing. Because they are run automatically. Okay, so whereas,
think about that background function. It wasn't being run automatically. It was being run because we told it to,
by writing background. But setup is actually going
to be run automatically. The only difference is we have to tell
it what to do in that setup function. So the normal thing you would do in
that setup function is set the size of the window. So remember size,
you've got the width, height. Just to remind me that that's
the width and that's the height. And then what you typically do in
the draw function is do your drawing, hence the name. So you set things up in the setup function
and you draw things in the draw function. So before we do any drawing
I'm just going to sort of just really illustrate what's
going on with these functions. Hello from setup, okay, and
here I'm going to say, this is, if you like the simplest way
to illustrate what's going on. So, all it's going to do is
set the size of the window and then print that and then draw is just
going to print out hello from draw. So let's play it and see what happens. So this area down here is called
the console and whenever you call print things go out into there and
it's really useful for debugging. So if you want to test what a value is or
something like that. So let's just whiz up to the top
of what's come out in the console. And you've probably noticed
already that draw is just being obviously run lots of times. Whereas set up, you see it's only
calling the setup code once. So, setup gets called once at
the beginning when the sketch runs. Draw is being automatically
called repeatedly. And that's the trick to doing animations. So, if you think about animation, it's basically a series of frames
with different stuff in and that's exactly what draw allows us
to do each time draw gets called. We can draw a different
frame of our animation, or update the picture that's on the screen. Okay, so let's try that. And what I'm going to do is bring in that
other idea, the idea of mouse movement. And I'm going to use the mouse
to actually draw something. So we've seen before this rect function. So remember x, y, width and height. Those are the four variables, the four numbers that we
parse into the rect function. So if I put it at 0,0,
it goes to the top left of the screen. And let's say I want a width and
height of 25, 25. So let's just run that. That's not very interesting, but what
you can imagine it's doing is basically redrawing the rectangle on top of
itself again and again and again. Little bit boring. But what happens if instead of
setting x and y to just always be 0, what if we set x and
y to be the mouse position? mouseX and mouseY? So these two special variables here give us access to the position
of the mouse currently. And as you imagine, if you move
the mouse around, they'll change. So if draw gets called again,
it'll update. So let's try that. So if I move my mouse around, you can see the rectangle appears
to be following it and because because draw just draws on top of
the previous canvas that was there, it doesn't wipe it each time, you can
see that whatever it's drawn before is being kept which makes for
a nice kind of drawing effect here. Now of course, if we did want to wipe it, we could just call
the background functions. Now remember, background fills the entire
background in a certain color, so I'm going to fill it with the color black,
which is a quick way of doing it is zero. That means every time draw gets
called the first thing it does, it wipes everything over
with a black background. Then we hit play. And you can see that now,
the square is just following the mouse, and it's wiping out that
trail of other squares. I kind of preferred
the previous one to be honest. Okay.
Now, the final thing I wanted to show you is the mouse track function. So this is another function
that gets called automatically. By processing. But this one doesn't just called again and
again like draw does. It actually gets called when
the mouse is being dragged. So the mouse is being dragged when
you basically click in the sketch and move the mouse around. So let's just illustrate that. So there's the whole sketch there. There's not much to it. I've got rid of the code
from the draw function and I'm just doing my drawing
inside mouseDragged now. So let's see what this one does. You'll notice right now
it's not doing any drawing. If I click on the Window and start
moving my mouse, then I can draw a line. Then I can draw another one. So it's a bit like a kind of
paint program with this nice, almost fake,
3-D effect on the lines there. Okay, so what have we done? We've just found out about the setup
function which gets called once every time your sketch runs. The draw function,
which gets called repeatedly and how to use mouse interaction
to do animation in draw. And how to use mouse interaction
basically responding to the user clicking into the window and
dragging the mouse around. [BLANK AUDIO]