[SOUND]. 
Okay, so one of the first things we have to learn how to do is to run applications 
on mobile devices. now Matt will have already shown you how 
to run stuff on Android, and Marco will have shown you how to run stuff off the 
desktop. I'm going to show you how you can run the 
same application, using our code that we've prepared for you, in the download 
pack which is off, which is from Coursera. 
So that you can do exactly the same code, write the same code, and have it run on 
all three devices, specifically on, on iOS device. 
Now, crucially, the way we're doing this as part of this program, is we're running 
all of the iOS-specific code as JavaScript. 
So, when you finish making your application, you press Go and it builds a 
webpage specifically for our iOS mobile device. 
There's a couple of little tricky things that we need to get right the first time 
we do it, and I'm going to talk you through those right now. 
But firstly, we start with a straightforward sketch. 
Now, I'm going to use a sketch that we're, we're going to talk about later on 
in lesson one, called Sonic Painter. And this is just a basic I'll sketch. 
It also runs on the desktop, and it also runs on Android in exactly the same way. 
So, I'm going to start by creating a running version on my desktop, so you can 
see. Just to give you a, a reminder of how 
that works. But we're using JavaScript. 
So, I'm just hovering over with the mouse, over the little bit that says 
JavaScript. When you click in the top right, 
right-hand corner of the processing IDE, you can see it says Java, Andriod, 
Javascript, Experimental. I don't really know what Experimental 
means. We're not going to try it out today. 
But we're going to try the JavaScript version. 
When you run it, when you press this Play icon as Mark already shown you, it 
launches your web browser. And I think we're recommending you use 
Google Chrome for this. Now, you should be able to hear, [SOUND]. 
And see the app. And that's the app we're going to look at 
later on in more detail. But crucially, what we need to know is 
what the web address is. Now, before you start, you need to make 
sure that you're on the same wireless network as your desktop on your iOS 
device. Most people do this all the time. 
When you're in your house, you've got one wireless network. 
And you connect your computer to that wireless network and you also connect all 
your devices to the same network. But you really need to do that, because 
if you don't do that, development can be a bit tricky to get started with. 
Okay? So, I recommend you do that first. 
If you haven't done that, do it now. So, the next thing we need to know is, 
what the IP address of this desktop is, because the desktop is actually serving 
the app at the moment. Later on in the course, you'll be serving 
the app from a web server, and even storing it locally on your device. 
I'll show you how to do that in a moment, but for now, we really need to know the 
IP address. Now, on a Windows machine you can do this 
by going to the command line terminal and typing IP config, and it will give you 
the IP address of your advice. On a Macintosh device, we can do the same 
thing. We can go to a terminal. 
If I type ifconfig, it gives me a list, and you should be able to see that now, 
it gives me a list of what looks like ridiculous numbers. 
But there's a number here, inet 192.168.0.108, that's the IP address of 
this machine on this network. I've got an iPad here. 
I'm going to launch Safari. And I'm going to go to the IP address. 
Http://192.168.0.108. Now, that's not enough, we also need a 
colon, and the port number. The port number here is 55523, I know 
this all seems like crazy garbage, but it, I promise you, is nearly over. 
Here you go, and it's gone straight to the Solid Painter app. 
And once it's loaded in, [SOUND], there you go. 
It's running on my iOS device. Simple as that. 
It's running over the network. Really simple. 
And now, I can continue to edit that app live and just refresh this page. 
So, I can change an aspect of it, go back to the code type something else in, and 
then refresh the page and it will then come up. 
One final thing though which is useful to know, if you want to embed this on your 
home screen whilest you're developing, you can hit this little sharing icon and 
choose add to home screen. And if you do that, it'll actually make 
it a proper bundled app. We'll be talking more about that later on 
towards the end of the course. But that, more or less, is how you get it 
running on your iOS device. And I just want to point out that our 
template, which we've prepared for you, is downloadable from the Coursera site. 
And that should look identical on a iOS device whether it's an iPad, an iPhone 5 
or an iPhone 4.