[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to this eighth, and last module of our introductory
course to subatomic physics. In this eighth module, we will talk
about two mysterious components of the Universe which are dark matter and
dark energy. After following this video you will now
what we know about the Big Bang and what were the major steps in the history of the
Universe from its beginning up to today. Observations indicate that our Universe
was created some tens of billions of years ago in what is called a Big Bang and went through an extremely
hot period afterwards. It then cooled down by expansion, down to its current
temperature of 2.7 Kelvin. Here, you see a schematic
representation of its evolution. The features of the cosmological standard
model as we know it today are primarily based on the following observations. First of all, the systematic red shift
of spectral lines from distant galaxies which leads to Hubble's law. Second, the cosmic microwave background
which corresponds to that of a black body. The abundance of light elements in cosmic
rays and the distribution of large-scale structures, galaxies,
clusters of galaxies, etc., and its relation to the anisotropies
of the microwave radiation. We will walk you through some major steps
of the history of the Universe, and review some of these
phenomena as we go along. Extrapolation of the current
Universe backwards in time leads us to an infinite energy-density
concentrated in a single point. At the beginning there was thus
a singularity, the Big Bang. You should not be afraid of singularities. They show up everywhere when
we talk about volume density when the volume tends to zero. The total energy of the Universe was,
of course, finite at t = 0 and the same as today for all we know. But the volume was extremely small. It has been constantly
expanding ever since. Be careful not to trust your intuition
when you think about expansion of the Universe. The idea that this is happening relative
to a fixed system of reference, is completely wrong.
If you think about it like the explosion of a firecracker in the night sky,
you're mistaken. It is space itself which expands. There's no way to observe this
process from the outside. And the expansion concerns not only
any distance between two objects, but any other length, such as
the wavelength of photons, for example. Through this expansion, the temperature
of the Universe has decreased by the same mechanism that your fridge
is using to cool down your vegetables. We can only speculate on
the first few 10^-40 s in the life of the Universe. In this era, the temperature was so high that all forces had the same
strength including gravitation. In addition, the dimensions were such that
gravity had to work in a quantized way, which we know nothing about. The homogeneity of the temperature
in the Universe indicates that diametrically opposite regions were in
causal contact shortly after this era. This is not explicable unless
it is assumed that around 10^-37 seconds after the Big Bang, the expansion of the
Universe passed through an exponential and superluminous phase. It is called a period of inflation. Its driving mechanism
remains to be discovered. Again, we must not shy away from this
thought, it is permissible by relativity that space itself expands at a velocity
larger than the speed of light. Indeed, no signal exceeds this
speed limit including this era. It is space itself which is blowing up. After the end of the inflation period,
the Universe was filled with a plasma of quarks and gluons and
other elementary particles. The temperature was such that
all particles were relativistic. Particles and
antiparticles were in thermal equilibrium. At some point during this era, a tiny asymmetry of unknown origin
between matter and anti-matter appeared. Matter became more abundant than
anti-matter by about 1 part in 30 million. The mechanism actually causing this
unbalance, which is called baryogenesis, remains to be discovered. [COUGH] This mechanism is responsible for
our existence. Without it,
all matter would have annihilated with antimatter. The necessary conditions for
this operation have been formulated for the first time by Andrei Sakharov. There are three such conditions. The first one is that C and CP symmetry
must be violated to objectively distinguish between matter and antimatter. The second condition is that
baryon number must be violated so that antibaryons can disappear
in favor of baryons. And third, all of this must happen
outside thermodynamic equilibrium e.g. in a phase transition, for example, so that anti-matter is not recreated
by the reverse process all the time. Beyond roughly 10^-11 seconds, we know a little more
precisely what happened. In this era, the Universe is sufficiently
cooled down by expansion so that the laws of the standard model which we have
encountered in this course are valid. The energies of the particles
were then comparable to what accelerators can provide. Around 10^-6 seconds, quarks and gluons combined to form baryons,
before this was not possible because the kinetic energy of the ingredients
prevented bound states. The small excess of quarks caused a small
excess of baryons over antibaryons. When the temperature was no longer
sufficient to maintain the equilibrium between nucleons and anti-nucleons,
a massive annihilation took place, leaving only about a single proton or
neutron among 100 billion. A similar process followed at about one
second, for electrons and positrons, leaving a tiny fraction of electrons. A few minutes after the Big Bang, the temperature had lowered
to some billion Kelvin. Neutrons and
protons fused to form deuterium and helium, but
most protons stayed on their own. At some point during this expansion
cooling process, energy in the form of gravitational mass began to dominate
over the energy of photons. After some 380,000 years, electrons formed
atoms with protons and other nuclei. Before the ambient photons were
sufficiently energetic to ionize atoms when they formed. At this time, this was no longer the case,
photons and matter decoupled. Radiation released at that
moment still exists today, it is called the cosmic
microwave background. When all dimensions expand,
the wavelength of photons also expands. And the corresponding
temperature decreases. We call the residual radiation
from that event the cosmic microwave background because its equivalent
temperature today is 2.7 degrees, the wavelength is thus
in the microwave range. This radiation, therefore, provides us
with an instantaneous photograph of the state the Universe was in
380,000 years after its birth. It is indeed the oldest source of
light because before the Universe was opaque since photons were
observed when ionizing atoms. By measuring the wavelength of
the cosmic microwave photons, one can map the temperature
of the Universe. This was done first using ground
based microwave antennas. And then, with specialized
satellites like COBE, WMAP and most recently with the Planck satellite. The distribution of photon
energy from any given direction exactly follows the one expected for
an ideal black body. The characteristic temperatures
are found to be homogeneous at the level of 100th of a per-mil even for
diametrically opposite directions. This is the motivation for
postulating the so called inflationary era. However, there are indeed small
fluctuations around the average temperature, which were caused by
regions of slight over- or under-density. These are probably the seeds
around which the large structures of matter that we
observe today have formed. Since then, thus, over the long
period which lasts until today, gravitational attraction has caused
matter to form gas clouds, then stars, galaxies and galaxy clusters and so on. The details of the structure formation
depend on the type of quantity of matter available- Dark matter may have helped
in this process as we'll see in video 8.2. Once stars are formed,
elements heavy than helium are cooked by nuclear fusion
as we learned in module 2. If one takes stock of the observed
components of the Universe, one finds the following. The total density of matter
deduced from the gravitational potential measured
from the movement of stars and galaxies is of the order of
10^-27 kilograms per cubic meter. The total density of baryons, visible or
invisible, both measured and deduced from the well established baryogenesis process
is smaller by about a factor of ten. Visible matter, shining light,
concentrated in stars, gas and dust is again less dense
by a factor of five. Most of the matter is thus
neither visible nor baryonic. It is called dark matter. We will talk about it in the next video. The rest of the energy
density of the Universe is provided by an even more mysterious form. It is called dark energy and appears to be currently accelerating
the expansion of the Universe. We speak about the little that
is known about it in video 8.3. But first, we will discuss
dark matter in the next video. [MUSIC]