[music] so, there's all these different  ways of taking two functions and  producing new functions.
you could add, subtract, multiply, divide  two functions, and could take two  functions and compose them, meaning that  the output for the one becomes the input  for the other.
in light to this, i'd encourage you just  to pick up your pen and just write down  some extraordinarily complicated  functions,  alright?
the function that you write down has  probably never been written down in the  history of humankind.
i mean, there's just so many different  choices that you could make when you are  combining all the algebraic operations.
and that's part of what makes calculus so  amazing,  right?
there's just a huge variety of functions  out there.
but not, not every function really has  its source in just combinations of  algebraic symbols,  right?
a lot of the functions that we want to  study are really functions that are  somehow coming from the real world.
so, i want to see some real world  examples of, of functions right now.
so, here's one unit conversion from  celsius to fahrenheit.
these are two different temperature  scales.
so, the function would be f of x,  it's 9 * x / 5 + 32.  so, this is just a linear function.
it's a number times x plus a number.
let's take a look what's f of zero.
and that would be 9 * 0 / 5 + 32.  well, that's zero plus 32, that just 32  and, of course, zero degrees celsius is  the same thing as 32 degrees fahrenheit.
here's another example.
what's f of, say, 37?
well, that's nine * 37 / 5 + 32.
9 * 37 is 333 / 5 + 32.
333 / 5 is 66.6, so 66.6 + 32 is 98.6.  and indeed, 37 degrees celsius is the  same thing as 98.6 degrees fahrenheit.
so, this function takes in something in  celsius and spits out something in  fahrenheit.
unit conversion is an example of a  function, but hardly the coolest example.
this is a much cooler example from the  real world.
what is this thing?
well, this thing here is a  microcontroller.
so, a very small computer and it's  attached to a couple light emitting  diodes, leds.
with a name like light emitting diode,  you might think that they light up, and  they could.
but in this circuit, i'm using the light  emitting diodes in reverse.
i'm using them as light sensors.
this one happens to be a red one.
this one happens to be a green one.
so, what this circuit does is let me  detect how much red and green light is  falling on these sensors.
at the other end is a usb cable and it  plugs into my computer so i can record  the results.
the data that i gathered from the real  world using the microcontroller.
it's really two different functions.
a function for the red led and a function  for the green led.
along the x-axis, i've plotted the number  of seconds that have elapsed since june  5th, 2012 at 6:0303 p.m.  and on the y-axis, i'm plotting the  number of clock cycles it took to  discharge the led.
so, what is the red function do?
it's input is a number a number of  seconds that have elapsed since this  particular moment in time.
it's output is how many clock cycles it  takes at that particular moment in time  to discharge the red led.
now, this thing was sitting in my  windowsill, right?
and the sun was rising.
and as the sun rises, there's more light  shining on the sensors which means fewer  clock cycles are necessary to discharge  the led.
and you can see that in this graph,  right?
the red function is decreasing as the sun  rises.
there's tons more examples of functions  coming from the real world.
here's one, human population.
it's a function.
the input is a year, the output is the  number of people alive during that year.
if you want to see this function just  take a look at wikipedia and their  article on population growth.
there's a  graph of that function, along the x-axis  is years and along the y-axis is human  population.
and as long as researching the internet,  here's another example of a real world  function.
it's a function i'll call f of n, and  it'll be defined by the rule f of n  equals the number of google hits when we  search for the number n.  let's try it out.
let's figure out some values of this  function like f of 188.  so i plug 188 into google, and i find  that there's about 1.08 billion hits.
so, the function at 188 is about a  billion, alright, the input is 188 and  the output of this function is the number  of google hits.
let's try about 4 * 188, that's 752. and  if i search for that, there's 308 million  hits,  alright?
so, f, the function, at 752 is about 300  million.
if we're persistent, we can plug inn lots  of numbers, and make a really  nice-looking chart like this.
now, you do this for hundreds of numbers,  right?
you type them into google, you see how  many google hits you get.
and you can plot them, right?
it's a function so you can the graph of  the function.
along the x-axis is the number that i  typed into google.
on the y-axis is the  millions of google hits that i get.
and when you look at the graph of this  function, it's not random.
there's real structure here, right?
the function is decreasing, right?
larger values get smaller outputs  because, you know, there is fewer  webpages that talk about really large  numbers than about popular small numbers.
but even more dramatically, when you plot  this on this special log, log graph  paper, the graph looks like it's sitting  near a straight line.
i mean, that's, that's really amazing  when you think about it.
i mean, this is some sort of pattern  that's just hidden in the number of pages  that talk about numbers.
i mean why?
where is this coming from, right?
it's a function from the real world.
input is a number.
the output is a number.
we want to understand that function.
calculus is part of the tool kit for  analyzing problems like this.
so, we've seen what functions do.
they take their input and they transform  in into some output.
and we've even sort of got this mental  image now,  this metaphor of a machine.
a conveyor belt that's transforming the  input into the output.
we've seen how to build a lot of new  functions using algebra.
or say, composing two functions.
and we've thought about some real world  examples.
[music] now, we're going to be thinking  more about functions for the rest of the  term.
but if you've got questions right now, i  encourage you to contact me as soon as  possible.
and i encourage you to get started on the  homework right away.
good luck.
[music]
