[MUSIC] In this module, we touch the basics
of particle acceleration and detection methods. In this video, we will continue our
discussion on particle detection techniques with semiconductor devices. After having watched this video, you will
know how semiconductor detectors detect the ionization caused by
traversing charged particles. And how this is used to
identify charged particles and to measure their trajectories. This particular type of ionization
detectors uses the properties of semiconductors to detect and measure
dE/dx of charged particles. When a charged particle
traverses a semiconductor, it will create an electron-hole pair. Since the conduction band is
close to the valence band, it takes only 3 eV of dE/dx to create a pair compared to the 30 eV to ionize a gas atom. The charges can be detected by
applying an electric field. Semiconductor detectors have
very good energy resolution. They are compact since
they are made of a solid. They are thin with a required thickness
much smaller than their additional length. The special resolution is in
the order of micrometers, ideal for a tracking detectors. And also they produce fast signals,
however they are expensive. They are fragile to make mechanical,
chemical and electrical impacts, and their performance is
degraded by irradiation. The basis of a semi-conductor detector
is a p-n junction with reverse bias. When two different semi conductor types,
n and p, are in contact, diffusion creates a zone free of charge
carriers around the contact surface. A depletion zone forms at the junction,
creating a potential barrier, which prevents conduction
between the two semiconductors. The application of a reverse bias
voltage widens the depletion zone, and this is how semiconductor diodes work. The passage of ionizing particles
liberates electron-hole pairs in the depletion zone. Charge are collected to both ends, and the diode conducts a small current for
a short time. Semiconductor detectors have a good
efficiency since only 3 eV are necessary to create
a single electron-hole pair. So, these detectors are ten
times more sensitive than a gas, and a hundred times more
sensitive than a scintillator. It, therefore, has a lower detection
threshold and a better energy resolution since more primary ionization
means less signal fluctuations. The threshold for dE/dx is
very low, so that is a good linearity. However, to measure
highly ionizing particles requires a large dynamic range of
readout electronics since dE/dx is proportional to the square
of the charge of the particle. Even if the junction is in reverse bias, there is still a small current of the
order of nA through the junction. This is called leakage current and
it is due to the motion of minority careers, effects
of impurities and surface effects. The time of the electrical signal
is of the order of nano seconds. So semi conductor detectors are as fast as scintillators which we will
discuss in the next video. The energy deposition by
the dE/dx is very local. Therefore, the electrodes
can be structured in one or both sides to locate
the passage of particles. The distance of metalized structures, called strips, is typically of
the order of 50 µm. And in this picture, you see an example
of silicone microstrip sensor of the AMS detector which is operating
on the International Space Station and of the ALICE detector operating
at the Large Hadron Collider. Each channel of the metallic structure
must be connected to the readout electronics through micro bonding. Applications of a semiconductor detector
in particle physics include the following. They are used arranged in layers to measure
the trajectory of charged particles. And this profits from the development in
micro electronic technology to fabricate precise structures on silicon and
other semiconductor materials. Example are microstrip detectors
used in the ATLAS at the Large Hadron Collider and in AMS. Pixel detectors which are being used for
the first time at LHC. Charged coupled devices, CCD, used in
digital cameras, and many others. Semi conductor detectors also
measure the deposited element. Their excellent resolution allows
the identification of the charge of the penetrating particle
in a tracking device. They can also be sensitive
elements in a calorimeter. This application is only limited
by the thickness of the depletion zone which goes from 50 micrometers
up to order of millimeters and the maximum chip size that can be produced
which is about 50 centimeters squared. Here is an example of a silicon wafer, so the big rectangle at the center.
And the sides, they are testing circuits which
allow to test the quality of the sensor before using
it to assemble a detecting unit. Before using it,
one must cut the sensor. And this is an example of a cut sensor. And usually, one connects several
sensors together to build the detection unit like this
one where there are two silicon sensors connected at
the middle by micro bonding and at the one end micro bonding connects
them to the readout electronics. More example of applications
using semi-conductor sensors will be shown in video 3.10. In the next video, we'll first talk about
the scintillators and Cherenkov detectors. [MUSIC]