[music] so, i get a number like the  square root of two.
and square root of two is irrational.
so, how am i going to figure out what  it's approximately equal to?
well, it turns out that it's  approximately, you know, 1.414 and a bit  more.
but how would ever figure that out?
how would i know that that's  approximately the value of the square  root of two?
let's use the intermediate value theorem  to try to pull it.
i want to use the intermediate value  theorem to approximate the square root of  two.
to do that, i'm going to use this  function,  f(x) = x^2 - 2.  notice something about this function.
this function is equal to zero when x is  the square root of 2.  and how is that?
f of the square root of 2 is the squared  of two squared, which is two, minus two,  which is zero.
so, if i'm trying to approximate the  square root of 2, what i'm going to think  about this, is that i'm going to look for  a positive value, that i can plug into  this function to make it a square root of  zero.
how am i going to find such a value?
you know, the other good thing about this  function is that it's continuous.
and then, i can plug in some values, like  f(1).
now, what's f(1)?
it's one squared minus two and that's  minus one.
and i can plot that on my graph right  here, and it's this point right here.
and take a look at, say, f(2).
f(2) would be two squared minus two,  which is two.
and i can plot that on my graph, right  here.
it's 2,  now, f is a continuous function and at  one, it's negative.
and at two, it's positive.
so, it's a continuous function.
it's negative at one and it's positive at  two.
by the intermediate value theorem, there  must be a point in between when the  functions value is equal to zero.
and you can see that on the graph.
we're looking for that point.
that is the square root of two where this  graph crosses the x-axis,  the positive x-axis.
and that's the point that we're looking  for,  right?
the intermediate value theorem promises  me there's a value in between where the  functions value equals zero.
and i can see that there must be such a  point on the graph.
and now, i know that that value is  between one and two.
and i can do better.
i can cut this interval between one and  two in half and i get that f(1.5).
well, 1.5 squared is 2.25 - 2 is 0.25.
[sound] alright.
so, that's, say, this point on my graph.
now, what do i know?
i know that the squared of two, which is  where this graph crosses the x-axis, is  between one, where the function is  negative and 1.5, where the function is  positive.
and i can do better,  alright?
i can pick some other point.
let's be brave and pick 1.4.  and if i plug in 1.4, well, 14 squared is  so, 1.4 squared is 1.96 - 2,  that makes this -0.4,  alright?
this is barely below the x-axis.
and i can plot that point here.
and now, i know that the square root of  two, the positive input to this function,  which is equal to zero,  well, it must be between 1.4 and 1.5.  because the function's value at 1.4 is  negative and the function's value at 1.5  is positive.
so, this is not so bad.
i mean, we, we could do this with a few  calculations on the blackboard.
let's, let's bring out some sort of  computation device so we can try to get  an even better approximation to the  square root of two.
so here, i've got a function.
the function is f(x) = x^2 - 2.  and you can see that if i plug zero into  the function, i get out -2 because 0^2 -  2 is -2.  now, this is a physical function.
i've got this knob here.
and as i spin  this knob, the function's input value  changes.
so, for example, if i spin it up to  f(05.
), f(1/2), that's negative 1.75 and  that's right because if i take a half  squared, i get a quarter, and a quarter  minus two is -1.75.  now, i could spin the input up to one.
f(1) is -1 = because 1^2 - 2 is -1 or  f(1.5), well, 1.5 squared is 2.25, 2.25 -  1 is 0.25.  now, this is positive or i could wheel it  back down a little bit.
and i see that when i get to 1.41, the  function's output is negative again.
then, i could increase the function's  input a bit.
oh, now the function's output is positive  again, at f(1.145).
and then, i could decrease the value a  little bit.
oh,  now, the function's output value is  negative again and that would increase  the output value a little bit.
oh,  now, the function's output is positive  and i could decrease the input a bit.
now, the function's output is negative,  could increase the input a little bit.
now, it's positive, could decrease the  input a little bit.
now, it's negative again.
now, look at what happened,  right?
what's going on?
i'm looking at the function f(x) = x^2 -  2 and i'm walking back and forth across  the point where this function is equal to  zero.
and as i walk to the left and to the  right, the function is positive and the  function is negative.
and i'm getting closer and closer to a,  to the actual place where the function is  equal to zero and what is 1.41421356?
it's awfully close to the square root of  two.
and if you think the square root of two  and square it and subtract two, you get  zero.
what we just saw with the knob that i was  turning is actually an incredibly general  technique for figuring out where a  continuous function crosses the x-axis.
and we can do it very efficiently.
let's take a look at how we might do this  a little bit more carefully.
here, i've drawn a graph with some random  looking continuous function and i've  labeled some points along the x-axis.
imagine that we couldn't see this whole  graph.
just imagine that the only thing you can  do is interrogate this function.
you can ask this function at some input  point, are you positive or negative?
we're trying to figure out where,  approximately, this continuous function  crosses the x-axis.
we're looking for a zero of this  continuous function.
how might the game begin?
i'll let it begin by asking the function,  are you positive or negative at zero?
and the function is positive at zero.
and then, maybe i'd ask at sixteen.
at sixteen, is this function positive or  negative?
and i'd see the function is negative.
the function's value is negative at  sixteen.
because it's a continuous function and  the function's value at zero is positive  and the function's value at sixteen is  negative, i know that there's a zero in  between.
there's some point in between that if i  plug it into the function, i get zero  out.
now, i could cut that interval in half.
i could plug in eight and i could ask the  function at f(8), are you positive or  negative?
and the function f(8), the value of the  function at eight is positive.
now, look.
i know the function's value at eight is  positive, the function's value at sixteen  is negative.
so, by the intermediate value theorem,  there must be a value in between, right  there, where the function's value is  zero.
and now, i could take that interval and  cut it in half again.
i could take a look at twelve, which is  exactly between eight and sixteen.
and i could ask the function, at  f(12),12), are you positive or negative?
and the function's value at twelve is  negative.
[sound] so now, i know by the  intermediate value theorem, the function  zero zero of this function must land  between eight and twelve and i could cut  that interval in half again.
i could look at ten, and i could ask the  function,  well, if i plug in ten, are you positive  or negative?
and the function's value with ten is  negative.
and now, i know that the zero must land  between eight and ten, because the  function's value at eight is positive and  the function's value at ten is negative,  so there must be a zero in between, a  point where the function's value is equal  to zero.
now, i could cut that interval between  eight and ten in half again.
i could look at nine.
and i could ask the  function, at nine, are you positive or  negative?
and if i plug in nine, it looks  like the function is positive.
and that means that a value that i can  plug into the function to make the output  zero lies between nine and ten.
and this is really quite remarkable.
i, i, i could cut the interval between  nine and ten and half again and see if it  was between nine and 9.5 or 9.5 and ten.
and i could keep doing this every time  i'm getting a little bit more precision  as to the exact value of the input that  would make the function zero.
the other really neat thing about this is  that i could have just tried all of the  values between zero and sixteen.
i could have plugged all seventeen of  those numbers into the function to figure  this out.
but by doing this clever  cutting in half method, this bisection  method, i managed to only ask six  questions,  right?
i asked the function's value at zero and  sixteen, at eight and twelve, at ten and  at nine, and by only asking six  questions, i was able to narrow down a  region where a zero resided.
now, that's pretty quite efficient, much  better than asking seventeen questions.
so, this is a very general technique for  figuring out where zeroes of continuous  functions lie.
and i encourage you to pick your favorite  function and see if you can approximate a  root, a zero of that function.
[music]
