[MUSIC] In this module we touch upon the basic
properties of particle acceleration and detection methods. In this video and in the next, we will discuss charged
particle detection techniques. First we talk about ionization
detectors in general, and gaseous ones, in particular. After watching this video, you will
know how gaseous ionization detectors count charge particles and
measure their trajectories, and which operational modes
such a detector can have. Ionization detectors detect the passage of
a charged particle by measuring the total charge of electrons and/or ions 
produced by the ionization of the medium. This medium can be a gas,
a liquid, or a solid. To collect the electrons and the ions before they recombine into atoms,
an electric field must be present, which separates the charges and
makes them drift towards electrodes. The charges induce a small
current on the electrodes, a signal which can be detected
through an amplifier. The average number of
electron-ion pairs produced during the passage
of a charged particle is given by the Bethe-Bloch formula
that we have presented earlier. With d being the thickness
of the detector, and W, the average energy required
to ionize one of its atoms. In a gas, W is typically of
the order of 30 eV. The size of the detected electrical signal
depends on several technical factors, but mostly on the applied high voltage. So this graph shows the most
important operational regions. On the y-axis you see the detected
charge in a logarithmic scale, and on the x-axis you see
the applied high voltage. The first useful region for particle
detection is the ionization region, where the voltage is large enough to
prevent ion-electron recombination and the ionization charges
drift towards the electrodes. The resulting signal reflects then
the total ionization charge. The advantage of this operational region is that you obtain an excellent energy
resolution at a very good linearity. The obvious disadvantage is that
the detected signal is very small, since there's no internal
amplification in the detector itself. So special low-noise
amplifiers have to be used in order to render this signal detectable. This operational mode is used in
ionization chambers filled with gases or noble liquids. Also, solid state detectors
made of silicone or germanium, which will be discussed in
the next video, work in this region. The next useful region for particle
detection is the proportional region. If the field is high enough, of
the order of 10^4 V/cm, electrons are accelerated by the electric field and gain enough energy to
produce secondary ionization. The total number of atoms ionized grows
exponentially with the applied voltage, as shown in this graph. The amplification factor is between
10^4 and 10^8. And the large amplification factor
can especially be obtained in gases, which is why detectors operating in
this region are mostly gas-filled. The advantage of using this region is that
there's no need to have a very low-noise electronics, since there's internal
amplification in the detector itself. The disadvantage is that
the energy resolution is worse, because of fluctuations in
the amplification process. These fluctuations are mainly due to
instabilities in external parameters, like the high-voltage,
the temperature, the pressure, etc. Detectors operating in
the proportional region are mainly used to measure the position of particles. Drift chambers, proportional wire chambers
and so on, use this operational region. In these chambers, the electric field
is implemented using thin wires, to put as little material as
possible in the path of the particle As an example, we show here, the central
drift chamber of the L3 detector at the Large Electron-Positron Collider
at CERN. As the particles lose very little
energy in the gas by dE/dx, the measurement is not destructive. Wire chambers are ideal to measure charged
particle tracks in front of a colorimeter, which will then measure
the particle energy by absorption. We'll talk about spectrometers and
colorimeters in video 3.10. The last useful region of gazeous ionization detectors
is the Geiger region. If the field is increased even more, the energies of secondary
electrons increase rapidly. And they excite or ionize other atoms. Thus, an avalanche of free
electrons is produced. Furthermore, a large number of photons
is produced when the atoms fall back into their ground state. These photons add to the ionization
by photoelectric effect along the wire where the electric
field is strongest. The avalanche develops quickly and
an audible discharge is produced. This is the principle
of the Geiger counter. Due to the discharge,
the current on the anode is saturated. The signal amplitude is thus
independent of the primary charge. The advantage of using this region
is that low radiation levels can be measured by counting particle rate,
even if the particles have low energy. The disadvantage is that the energy of
the particles cannot be measured. The discharge stops when the space
charge formed by the positive ions around the anode decreases sufficiently
the electric field so that the avalanche process stops. The detector will be
insensitive to new ionization until the positive ions have
migrated far enough from the anode. This is the origin of dead
time in a Geiger counter. A further increase in the electric
field produces a permanent discharge. A short circuit between cathode and anode,
which will eventually destroy the device. Here's a picture of a Geiger counter, which makes an audible sound
every time a particle is counted. And in fact,
I've brought a Geiger counter here. It has the Geiger tube fixed
to the electronics and the counting device in this base. So if I switch it on. [SOUND] You can hear the audible
sound created by the device. The counting rate is mostly due to the Potassium radioactive
isotopes inside my own body. In the next video, Mercedes will discuss
semiconductor-based ionization detectors. [SOUND]