[music] we're going to calculate the  derivative of x squared with respect to  x.  maybe a little bit more prosaically, i  want to know how wiggling x affect x  squared?
there's a ton of different ways to  approach this.
let's start by looking at this  numerically.
so let's start off by just noting that 2  sqyared is 4,  and i'm going to wiggle the 2 and see how  the 4 wiggles.
instead of plugging in 2, let's plug in  2.01 squared is 4.0401.  and let's just keep on going with some  more examples.
2.02 squared is 4.0804.
2.003 squared, say, is 4.012009.  alright, so those are a few examples.
i've wiggled the inputs, and i've seen  how the outputs are affected.
and of course the, all the outputs are  close to 4, alright?
but they're not  exactly 4.  when i wiggled the input from 2 to 2.01,  the output changed by about .04, and a  little bit more, but that'ts a lot  smaller.
when i wiggled the input from 2 to 2.02,  the output changed by about .08, not  exactly .08, but pretty close to .08.  and when i wiggled from 2 to 2.003, the  output changed by about.
about .012 and a little bit more, but,  you know, it's close.
now look at the relationship between the  input change and the output change.
the input change by .01, the output  change by 4 times as much, about.
the input change by .02, the output  change by 4 times as much.
the input change by .003, the output  change by about 4 times as much.
i'm going to summarize that.
the output change is the input change  magnified by 4 times.
right?
the input change by some factor.
and the output change by about 4 times  that amount.
let's see this at a different input  point.
instead of plugging in 2, let's plug in 3  and see what happens.
so 3^2 is 9, but what's, say 3.1^2?
that's 9.61.  or what's 3.01^2?
well, that's 9.0601.  maybe wiggle down a little bit.
what's 2.99 squared?
that's close to 3  but wiggling down by .01.  that's 8.9401.  let's see how much roughly the output  changed by.
when i went from 3 to 3.1 the output  changed by out point 6.  when i went from 3 to 3.01, the output  changed by about .06, and when i went  from 3 down to 2.99, the output when down  by about .06 again.
little bit less.
now what's the relationship between the  input change and the output change?
well  here the input changed by .1, the output  change by .6, about 6 times as much.
again, the input change by .01, the  output changed by about six times as  much.
and when the input went down by .01 the  output went down by about six times as  much.
so again, we're seeing some sort of  magnification of the output change to the  input change, but now it's magnified not  by four times but by six times.
so the important lesson here is that the  extent to which wiggling the input  affects the output depends on where  you're wiggling.
if you're wiggling around 2, the output  is being changed by about four times as  much.
if you're wiggling the input around 3,  the output is being change by about six  times as much.
instead of doing just a few numerical  examples, let's generalize this by doing  some algebra.
so, i'm starting with x^2 and i'm going  to wiggle x and see how x^2 is effected.
so, instead of plugging in x, i'll plug  in x + something, let's call the change  in x, h.  now i want to know, how is this related  to x ^ 2?
well i can expand out (x+h)^2,  that's x^2+2xh+h^2.
so when i wiggle the input from x to x+h,  how is the output being affected?
well  the output, is the old output value plus  this change in output value 2xh+h^2, h^2  is pretty small.
when h is small, h^2 is really small so  i'm going to throw that away for now.
and just summarize this by saying that  the output change is 2xh and the input  change.
is h.  now the derivative is supposed to measure  the relationship between the output  change and the input change.
so i'm going to take the ratio of the  output change to the input change, and  2xh/h=2x, as long as h isn't 0.  this is the ratio of output change to  input change and that makes sense, right?
think back to what just happened here a  minute ago, when we were plugging in some  nearby values and seeing how the outputs  were affected.
when i was wiggling the input around 2,  the output was changing by about twice 2.  when i was wiggling the input around 3,  the output was changing by about twice 3,  alright?
2x is the ratio of output change  to input change.
if the algebra's not really speaking to  you, we can also do this geometrically,  like drawing a picture.
here's a square of side length x.  the area of this square is not,  coincidentally, x^2.
now i want to now the derivative of x^2  with respect to x.  i want to know how changing x would  affect the area of this square.
now to see this here is another square.
this is a slightly larger square of side  length x+h.
h is a small but positive number.
so how does the area of this new square  compare to the area of this old square?
let me put the old square on top of the  new square, and you can see that when i  change the input from x to x+h, i gained  a bit of extra area.
the derivative is recording the ratio of  output change to input change.
so, i want to know what's the ratio of  this new area as compared to just the  change in the input h.  so, let me pull off the extra area.
there is extra area, is this l shaped  region.
how big is this l shaped region?
well,  this short side here, has side length h.  this side length here, is also h.  this is the extra length that i added  when i went from x to x+h.
this inside has length x, and this inside  edge has length x.  now i want to know the area of this  region.
to see that, i'm going to get out my  scissors and cut this region up into 3  pieces.
now here's one of those pieces.
and, here's another one of those pieces.
and, here's the third piece.
so these are the 2 long thin rectangles,  and they've both got height h, and length  x.  i'm also left with this little tiny  corner piece.
and that little tiny corner piece has  side length h, and the other side is also  length h.  it's a little tiny square.
well the limit, this little tiny corner  piece, is infinitesimal.
i'm going to throw this piece away and  most of the area is left in these 2 long,  thin rectangles.
if i rearrange these long, thin  rectangles a bit, can put them end to  end.
they've both got height h.  so i can put them next to each other like  this.
and their base is both length x.  so how much area is in this long thin  rectangle?
well, it's height h, it's  width is 2x.
so the area is 2x * h.  now this is the additional area,  excepting for that little tiny square,  which we gained when i changed the size  of the square from x to x + h.  so the change in output is about 2 * x *  h.  the change in input was h, so the ratio  of output change to input change is 2 *  x.  maybe what we're doing here seems a  little bit wishy washy, not really  precise enough.
but we can also calculate the derivative  of x ^ 2 with respect to x, by just going  back to the definition of derivative in  terms of limits.
carefully, f of x is x^2.
and the derivative of f is by definition  the limit as h approaches 0.  f of x plus h minus f of x, the change in  output divided by h, the change in input.
in this case f of x plus h is just x plus  h squared and f of x is just x squared.
i'm dividing by h.  i can expand this out.
this is the limit as h approaches 0 of  ((x+h)^2-x^2)/h.
now i've got an x^2-x^2, so i can cancel  those, and i'm just left with the limit,  as h approaches 0, of (2xh+h^2)/h.
more good news, in the limit i'm never  going to be plugging h=0, so i can  replace this with an equivalent function  that agrees with it when h is close to  but not equal to 0.  in other words, maybe a little bit more  simply, i'm canceling an h from the  numerator to the denominator.
so, 2xh over h is just 2x and h^x over h  is just an h.  now what's the limit of this sum?
well  that's the sum of the limits.
it's the limit of 2x as h approaches 0 +  the limit of h as h approaches 0.  now as far as wiggling h is concerned, 2x  is a constant, so the limit of 2x as h  approaches 0 is just 2x.
and what's the limit of h as h approaches  0?
well, what's h getting close to when h  is close to 0.  that's just 0.  so, this limit is equal to 2x and that's  the derivative of x^2.
what that limit is really calculating is  the slope of a tangent line at the point  x and we can see that it's working.
this is the graph of y=x^2.
at -4 the slope of the tangent line is -8  at 2, the slope of the tangent line is 4,  and, at 6, the slope of the tangent line  is 12.  there's a ton of different perspectives  here.
we've been thinking about the derivative  of x ^ 2 with respect to x, numerically,  algebriaically, geometrically, going back  to the definition of derivative in terms  of limits, looking at it in terms of  slopes of tangent lines.
what makes derivatives so much fun is  that there just so many different  perspectives on this single topic, no  matter how you slice it.
we've shown that the derivative of x  squared with respect to x is 2 times x.  maybe you like algebra, maybe you like  geometry, maybe you just like to play  with numbers.
but now matter what your interests are,  derivatives have something to offer you.
[music]
