[MUSIC] In this module we are treating
the basics of particle acceleration and detection methods. In this second video,
we treat the acceleration and focusing mechanisms inside accelerators. After watching this video, you will be
able to answer the following questions. What are the main components of
an accelerator and how do they work? And how does a complex of accelerators
like that at CERN work together to achieve the highest energies and
highest intensities? Inside an accelerator,
particles move in an evacuated tube. And this is to prevent them from
interacting with air molecules and lose energy, or be transformed. Even if they don't, we still have to  
supply radio frequency acceleration, even in the storage ring if we want
to keep the beam energy constant. This is because an accelerated
charged particle loses some fraction of its energy in
the form of radiation by emitting photons. This process is called bremsstrahlung, the same process that produces
photons in an X-ray tube. In such a tube, the electron cathode ray beam is stopped
by an inclined water-cooled target. The energy of the electron is
typically ten kiloelectron volts. They thus yield X-ray photons of
a comparable energy. But also lateral acceleration creates 
bremsstrahlung, namely synchrotron radiation. For relativistic particles, the lost power per turn P is
proportional to the fourth power of the relativistic factor gamma, and the inversely proportional
to the radius of curvature rho. It is large for light particles
circulating in small orbits. This loss must be replaced
constantly to get a stable beam in an orbit of constant radius. But synchrotron radiation is more than a nuisance. One uses it to produce
monochromatic photons. The Swiss Light Source at the Paul-Scherrer-Institute
in Villigen is a source of high brightness brightness light based on an electron synchrotron 
of 2.4 giga electron volts. Is beam lines are used researching
material science, biology, and chemistry. The accelerating electric field is generated
by a vacuum tube amplifier, the klystron. An intense electron beam is accelerated,
then bunched in a resonant cavity. In a second resonant cavity
the electron kinetic energy is extracted in the form of
a radio frequency wave. Modern klystrons have normally several
such amplification stages. The beam is held on a circular
path by dipole magnets. The transverse focusing of the beam is
done by quadruple magnetic fields. A low quadruple component is normally
present even in a dipole magnet. The focalizing forces come from a slight
horizontal component of the magnetic field, which changes sign as one passe from
below to above the orbital plane. By alternating this quadruple configuration with
one which is rotated 90 degrees, the focalization is obtained
in both horizontal and vertical directions transverse to the beam. Magnets with dipolar and quadruple fields
thus the complany in the accelerator ring. Two coils have create a dipole field,
four create a quadruple field as shown. Today these coils are normally
superconducting to minimize resistive loss. But focalization is also
needed in the longitudinal direction. The reason is that the particles
must arrive synchronously to acceleration points. Thus, they are injected in short packets.
If they arrive at radio frequency resonators on the increasing slope of the
electric field, their phase remains stable. A particle arriving with a slight
delay compared to the ideal phase will see a field that is
stronger than the average field. A particle with a slight advance will on
the contrary see less accelerating field. In this way, the particles will automatically
oscillate around the ideal phase. We can lower energy losses from synchrotron
radiation by increasing the radius or curvature rho, weakening at the same time the dipole field. Asymptotically, we can
let rho tend to infinity, resulting in a linear accelerator. Almost every accelerator complex
begins with such a device. Much of the vacuum tube which contains
the beam itself is a resonant structure of radio frequency with
a traveling electromagnetic wave. Between the resonant cavities,
there are spacers made of conductive tubes. Their length must follow the velocity
of the accelerated particles, i.e. they should be equal to the velocity times
half the period of the radio frequency. It is also necessary that when
passing in a unshielded portion of the cavity, the electric field has
the desired sign and value. Once the velocity of the particle is
sufficiently close to the speed of light, the spacing becomes constant. Today's powerful accelerators
are mainly working in synchrotron mode. The most powerful, the Large Hadron Collider,
has been in operation since 2008. It is part of a complex of accelerators
to obtain maximum energy and luminosity. In 2011 and 12, the energy of the
proton beam was 3.5 TeV. In 2012, it was raised to 4 TeV. And after a technical interruption,
that started in February 2013, the operation resumed in 2015 with
7 TeV per beam. This corresponds to the impressive
energy of 1.12 µJ. The path of particles through
the complex is shown in the short CERN video 3.2a. In the next video we
will visit CERN to discuss the key components of the LHC with Prof. Tobias Golling of University of Geneva. [MUSIC]