Let's look at different types of data. Probably what most of us think about
when we use the term data is numeric or tabular data, what researchers might
refer to as quantitative data. And then there are other types. Samples such as DNA or
blood samples, physical collections, including plant specimens,
software programs and code, databases, algorithms, model, and geodatabases. Obviously, these are not all
the types of data out there. Can you think of other examples? What types have you encountered? Please share them in the forum. There are other research products that
need to be considered alongside data in order for the data to be meaningful. These include questionnaires, code books,
and descriptions of methodologies. Jillian Wallis, Elizabeth Rolando, and Christine Borgman describe
this as background data. Background data provides contextual
information important in the analysis of the primary foreground
data collected for analysis. For example, what the temperature was
at the time a sensor reading is taken may be critical to understanding
variances in data a sensor collected. And then there are research products
built on the data that are essential for secondary analysis or meta-analysis and
for content dissemination. These include reports, conference posters,
articles, white papers, and books. And we should include websites and blogs. Another essential concept in
data management is metadata. This is a term that you will hear
me refer to throughout this course. Metadata is often defined
as data about data. This, of course, is a basic and circular
definition that may not help us too much. More specifically, metadata is
structured information that describes, explains, locates, or
otherwise represents something else. For our interest in this course,
that something else is, of course, our target research data. Metadata makes it easier to retrieve,
use or manage an information source. Data are nothing without metadata,
especially digital data. One cannot search for, identify, or
interpret data without robust metadata. For each dataset, we need to know
at minimum, who created the data, when the data were created or
published, and a title or descriptive name
used to refer to the dataset. In this digital landscape,
we also need a unique and persistent identifier for
the data so that we can locate it, even if the data are moved to
a different location on the web. Beyond these metadata elements,
we can increase our ability to find and identify data if we have
information about these, along with the other 11 metadata elements that make
up the Dublin Core Metadata Element Set. Dublin Core allows us to find and
identify data. But to be able to interpret and
use data as they were intended, we also need to know quite a bit of
other information about the data. The Data Documentation Initiative, or DDI, developed a metadata scheme
specifically for this purpose. Along with basic Dublin Core Elements, DDI prescribes additional
metadata elements that provide specific information
about data collection processes, variable-level descriptions,
and methodologies.