so, in the last lecture, we saw that it  was possible to recover the state from  the outputs using this observer  structure.
and the key there was to build an  estimate, or a copy of the state, x hat.
and to let the dynamics be given by the  predictor part, which is x hat dot this  ax hat which is a copy of the original  dynamics.
plus the corrector part, that basically  compares the outputs to what the outputs  would have been if x hat was indeed the  state, and that output would have been c  times x hat.
now, what we have here, is this gain l.  and we saw that designing this l, was  just like designing a k, when you're  doing control design and, what we really  need to do then was just pull placement  on the aerodymamics, so if the error, we  had e dot now being equal to a minus lc  times e, and we just needed to stabilize  that system.
but just with to control the sign  observer the sign doesn't always work and  we saw that we needed some kind of notion  related to controlability that works for  obsever the sign and that notion is  observability so observability is really  the topic of today's lecture.
and just ask for controllability,  it's easiest to approach this with a  rather modest and simple example.
so we're going to deal with a discrete  time system where xk + 1 is axk and the  output, yk is cxk.
and we start somewhere, we have some x0,  and the question is, by collecting n  different outputs, can we recover the  initial condition?
meaning can we figure  out where we started from?
well, at time  0 the output is simply c times x0, right?
at time 1, the output is c times x1.
well, x1 is a times x0, so the output at  time 1 is cax0.
and so forth.
so at time, n - 1, the output is ca^n - 1  times x0.
so now i've gathered this little n  different measurements, or y's.
and the relationship that we have is  this.
it looks very similar to what we had in  the controllability case.
and in fact, this matrix here is going to  be the new main character in the  observability drama.
in fact, this is an important matrix that  we're going to call omega.
in fact omega will be called the,  observability matrix, as opposed to  gamma, which was the controllability  matrix.
now, just as we had in the control  problem, we have a similar kind of setup,  where we want to be able to basically  invert omega to recover xo from this  stack of outputs.
and just as in the controlability case,  this is possible when this omega, the  observability matrix has full rank.
meaning that the number of linearly  independent rows or columns is the same,  is equal to little, little m.  and luckily, for us,  just as for controllability, this result  generalizes to the case that we're  actually interested in.
which is, the continuous time x is ax, y  is cx.
so, observability, in general.
means that the system is completely  observable, which i'm going to call co,  if it is possible to recover the initial  state from the output.
that's basically what it means.
i collect enough outputs, and from there  i'm able to tell you where the system  started.
and just like for controllability, we  have a matrix.
this case it's omega which is the  observability matrix and theorem number 1  mirrors exactly theorem number 1 in the  controllability case its as, so this is  controllability complete observability  theorem number 1.  it says the system is completely  observable if and only if the rank of  omega is equal to little n meaning this  observability matrix has full rank.
now as before, the rank is simply the  number of linearly independent number of  rows or columns of the matrix only in  this case.
now, we have the second theorem, it  follows directly in the same way as it  did for control ability.
so, if i have this as my observer  dynamics, and then i find the error  dynamics where e simply is the actual  state minus my state estimate.
well, what i wanted to do of course, is  drive e to 0, that's what i would like.
well, theorem number two tells me that  this is possible,  if and only if, using pole-placements to  arbitrary eigenvalues.
if and only if, the system is completely  observable.
so, we have an exact dual to  controlability when we're designing  observers.
and in fact, designing observers, or  estimating the state, is really the same  thing as doing control design.
it just happens that we're stabilizing  aerodynamics instead of stabilizing the  state.
so this is good news, right, because now  we can actually figure out what the state  is.
so we are very, very close now to being  able to design controllers as if we had  x,  which we don't, we have y, but we use y  to figure out an estimate on x.  so what we're going to do in the next  lecture is simply put what we've done on  the control design side, and on the  observant design side together, in order  to be able to actually control liner  systems where we don't have the state but  all we do have is the out
