[MUSIC] At the foundation of many
archival standards is ISO 14721, reference model for an open archival
information system, or OAIS. This reference model presents
a high-level framework For understanding archival concepts, defines
elements & processes within digital repositories, and
establishes a set of responsibilities for the long-term preservation
of digital information. Repositories that consider themselves
to be OAIS archives are presumed to have mechanisms and workflows in place
to properly safeguard digital materials. These mechanisms and workflows serve the
specific archiving needs of the designated community, which OAIS defines as
an identified group of potential consumers who should be able to understand
a particular set of information. While the definition of designated
community might change over time, the archive accepts responsibility for
the long-term preservation and availability of information for
that designated community. The OAIS model has six
functional entities. Ingest, archival storage,
data management, administration, preservation and access, and
illustrate the data curation and archiving workflows that takes place from
the time a researcher submits his or her data to when a third-party
user accesses the data. When a repository receives data files, also known as the submission information
package or SIP, from the data producer, the ingest function performs several tasks
to establish evidence of authenticity and to ensure that files are in proper formats
and include necessary documentation. Standard ingest procedures include
normalization of files to formats that are optimal for
long-term preservation. Optimal formats are determined
based on careful consideration of sustainability and use factors that
can affect the feasibility and cost of long-term file preservation. For instance, if a researcher submits
an spss.sav data file to a repository, the repository may normalize the data file
into a tab-delimited preservation format. SPSS is a proprietary statistical
analysis software program owned by IBM, a private company. SPSS has had its share of
new versions over the years, leaving old files unable to be rendered
properly by the latest versions. Such old files are externally dependent
on a computer running certain versions of the software, and only if the computer's
operating system supports that software. Even for those skilled enough
to hack software code, many proprietary formats
are not transparent, making it impossible to access,
much less modify or update the code. During ingest,
the repository will convert the SPSS file into a tab delimited format,
which is widely adopted, non-proprietary or open source, and
free from external dependencies. Preservation optimization also presumes
that the stamp includes supplementary documentation that enables appropriate
interpretation and use of the data. The Ingest functional entity ensures
that SIPs have all the necessary components that make data preservation,
access, and reuse possible. During Ingest, the repository also
performs the initial checksum or hashsum on SIP files. A checksum is produced using an algorithm
that generates a unique string combination that is specific to the arrangement
of bits contained in the data files. This unique string combination can
be used to detect any changes to files resulting from corruption that
may occur inadvertently over time, which is essential to
demonstrating a file's integrity. Because data are digital objects
with specific attributes, data repositories may perform
additional tasks during ingest, including checks for confidential
information and data quality reviews. Once ingest tasks have been completed, the SIP is considered to be an archival
information package, or AIP. The archival storage
function oversees storage, maintenance and retrieval of the AIP. Once the AIP is moved into permanent
storage, the archival storage function manages storage hierarchy,
performs routine error checking, refreshes storage media, and
recovers files in the event of a disaster. Meanwhile, the data management function
provides functionality for generating, maintaining, and
accessing descriptive information, ie metadata, to document the files
housed in archival storage. It also administers archival database
functions to include database management, updates, and queries. Once the AIP files are placed
in permanent storage, the customer can request access and
retrieve data files. This service and functionality is
provided by the access function, which coordinates these requests and
assembles and delivers the final dissemination
information package or DIP to users. [MUSIC]