[MUSIC] Now that we have discussed
the archival ingest process storage, data management and access or to use
OAIS language, have a sip becomes dip. We will continue looking at the two
remaining OAIS functional entities as well as some other
archival best practices. For monishing the overall repository
environment, the preservation planning function provides recommendations for
preservation and planning strategies to ensure that data are accessible and
understandable to users over time. These recommendations often include
migration and or emulation. To protect against data
loss due to obsolescence, data repositories migrate digital content
from out of date storage media or software formats to more up to date ones. This practice may be done automatically
within a preservation system or an archivist who may
migrate content manually. Another option is emulation,
emulation involves the recreation of the original computer environment allowing
users to access the digital object. Whatever the strategy, preservation
planning involves ongoing evaluation of archival materials to identify
file migration requirements. Recommends changes to archive processes
and policies and reports any risks. Beyond the archive, the preservation
planning function also monitors the technology landscape and
uses service requirements and adapts preservation
recommendations accordingly. The successful implementation
of preservation strategies and the overall operations of the archive
relies on the administration function to handle data submission
agreements with data producers, establish quality standards, and
manage infrastructure configurations. Much of this is part of ongoing monitoring
and assessment of archive operations. Along with implementing and monitoring
data archiving operations and workflows, a repository also must be able
to demonstrate organizational, physical and economic stability. A trustworthy repository can weather
the storm of personnel transitions, infrastructure mishaps and
tightly resourced environments, without any disruption in
preservation activities. However, there are always
unforeseen circumstances that can potentially result
in organizational failure. To deal with such cases, repositories may
enter into collaborative partnerships. One example is
the Data Preservation Alliance, for the Social Sciences or Data-PASS. Data-PASS partners have a formal
agreement to take on stewardship of a partner's collection,
should that organization become defunct? A common protection against physical
losses from disasters is storing copies of digital content in
geographically distributed locations. Some repositories employee the LOCKSS
system, Lots of Copies Keep Stuff Safe. Which stores copies of content on partner servers across
geographically diverse regions. Economics sustainability for long term preservation is an ongoing
concern in the field of data archiving because the cost of long term
preservation are still largely unclear. Regardless, a trustworthy repository has
in place both short-term and long-term business plans for sustainability with
transparent accounting practices. They also analyze and
document financial risks, investments and expenditures to anticipate costs and
prepare necessary budgets. As you can see archiving data
properly is no trivial undertaking. From receiving file submissions
from data producers, to making data files
accessible to the public. Trustworthy data repositories make
a verifiable commitment to archiving data. They expend significant amounts of labor,
funding, research and assessment to safeguard data. This is why it is important to make
data repositories an integral part of your data management planning. Trust them to take care of your data
while you take care of your research. [MUSIC]