quick questions.
what kind of shape do i have if my interception curves look like this?
>> symmetric.
>> is it axisymmetric?
i know, you took it in 3200. you've seen this one.
but why is it axisymmetric?
>> the energy ellipsoid is the same width in one and two axis?
>> the interception lines have constant h3.
if you go back and look at the differential equations here, h3 that means omega three is constant, this will go to omega three dot goes to zero if i2 is equal to i1.
and then you can have a constant h3, right?
that's the intersection point that you're going to have, and we're spinning this way.
if you're here though, that means that my omega three, my h3 coordinate is zero, therefore omega three coordinate is zero.
if omega three is zero, then this one is already zero to begin with because of the inertias.
if omega three is zero these, omega threes make both of those terms go to zero.
that's why you get points.
those are now pure spin conditions that you would have and they don't wobble beyond that.
what kind of shape is this going to be?
so basically, it says whatever spin axis i pick, it's just going to stay there.
>> sphere.
>> sphere.
>> a sphere, good.
with a sphere, you can take a sphere and spin it about any axis and it'll just keep spinning.
and that is a pure spin.
so, the sphere is an easy one.
no matter how bad you are, you're spinning about a principal axis, or it wouldn't be a sphere.
is there another shape you could use?
the cube.
all you need is your principal inertias have to be equal, and for a cube, that's the case.
we don't have a spherical mass distribution, but we still get three equal.
that's why it's easy, actually, to throw a cube.
a cube should be random, in that case.
so if you go to vegas and throw the dice, it should give you some random stuff.
every throw should have an equal probability, unless you're playing with a professional gambler, in which case, they put a slight mass in there, right?
and bias it in one direction.
and all this kind of is no longer true, because we no longer have equal inertias.
that's how gamblers today, they're very smart with the math.
i'm sure you did it this way, not just testing that.
>> [laugh] >> [laugh] >> but the cube is one of the things, exactly.
spheres people often think about it, but the cubes, cubes ask these kind of things as well.
if you want to spin them about any axis, actually you can spin them, as long as it's a perfect mass distribution.
while we build cube sized spacecraft, the internals aren't necessarily homogeneous, so even with a cube outer shape, you still have to look the internal.
where's the battery?
where's the antenna?
right, that could shift and give you three unique inertias.
but if you fill it up with lead and launch it, that would happen.
okay.
