[SOUND]
>> Hello, welcome back. In this lesson, we will learn
about the common attack models for cyber physical systems and
the mechanisms to mitigate these attacks. Attacks on cyber physical systems are
divided into passive and active attacks. In an active Attack, the attacker
manipulates the system resources and affects the operation of the system. Active attacks are carried out
within a short period of time. In a passive Attack, the attackers
makes use of the information in the system without
interrupting it's operation. The passive attacks are done
over a longer period of time and are more difficult to detect. Let's explore different
attacks models in more detail. Eavesdropping, or
Sniffing is a Passive attack in which the attacker captures
information transmitted in a system. The attacker aims to obtain
sensitive information, such as, passwords, session tokens, or
any kind of confidential information. Eavesdropping, therefore,
violates the privacy of users, but it does not effect
the operation of the system. Let's have a closer look at potential Eavesdropping attacks against
cyber physical systems. In a wireless communication, an attacker can capture network
packets with the receiver. If the communication is encrypted, the attacker then try to break
the encryption to gain the information. In physical or wired links, Eavesdropping could be done by analyzing
the Electromagnetic fields of the wires. In addition to wires, other devices such as displays also
have Electromagnetic emissions. That could be analyzed
to get some information. Power analysis is some
other way of Eavesdropping, in which the attacker attempts
to capture some information by analyzing the electrical
power usage of a system Now, that we got familiar with
different types of Eavesdropping. Let's see how we can mitigate this attack. Eavesdropping can be prevented
by using strong encryption. This is very important,
especially in wireless communications. Using smart antennas to limit the coverage
area of wireless access points and using minimal power for
wireless transmissions are other ways of mitigating
this attack in wireless network. Physical protection of cyber
physical systems is also very important to mitigate
eavesdropping attacks. For example, using shielded wires for
physical links and using special racks or rooms for critical devices are some
methods of physical protection. Denial of Service, or (DoS),
is another common attack model. A DoS attack is an Active attack in which the attacker Targets the availability
of the service or system. Temporarily or indefinitely. A DoS attack can have
a devastating effect on the system. DoS attacks are carried out
by exhausting the systems resources with a lot of valid processes. In other words,
DoS attacks take advantage of valid actions in a system by repeating those
actions a huge number of times in a row. For example, in ICMP or internet
control message protocol flood attack. The attacker floods the server
with several ICMP echo requests or ping packets. In this case, the server will be
busy to respond to ping requests and this will result in a significant
decrease in its ability to process and respond to its main services. The main objectives of
Denial-of Service-attacks are, Congesting network resources,
Draining CPU memory, Reducing computing power,
Exploiting TCP timers Or Poisoning domain name translations. To make a DoS attack even more efficient, multiple computers can attack on a single
device or server simultaneously. This mechanism is called a Distributed
Denial of Service attack or DDoS. DDoS is a multi person,
multi device attack that is launched from multiple sources that
are distributed over the network. DDoS attacks, the most dangerous attacks,
and are difficult to track and prevent. SYN flood attack is
an example of a DDoS attack. In a SYN flood attack,
a device or servers attacked with a flat of TCPC synchronization
packets from multiple sources. In most cases, to make it difficult
to detect the source of attack, the attackers use full source
Acronises in the scene pockets. Low-rate TCP targeted attack
is another mechanism for DoS. It exploits the properties
of TCP timers and results in degrading the throughput
of a system close to zero. In order to make a Denial-of Service
attack more difficult to trace, an intermediate host can be used for
launching the attack. This approach is called
Reflective DoS attack. A Botnet attack is an example
of a Reflective Dos attack. A compromised-key Attack is another
attack model for cyber physical systems. A compromised-key refers to a secret
code obtained by an attacker to interpret secure information. The key could be a password for
logging into a system or a session key for
communication between two devices. If a key is obtained by an attacker,
it is considered a Compromised-key. In this attack, the sender and receiver
usually are not aware of the attack. Hence, it is considered a passive attack. So why are cyber physical systems
vulnerable to Compromised-key Attacks? The vulnerability of cyber physical
systems to Compromise-key Attacks is based on the special
characteristics of these systems. Cyber physical systems
are Physically accessible, and therefore easier to compromise. For example, an attacker could
Physically access a device and obtain a password or a secret key. Another reason is that due to the Resource
constrained devices used in a cyber physical system,
weaker security measures are implemented. For devices and communication. Weak measures are easier to Compromise. A Compromised-key Attack can
be mitigated in several ways. First, the system should be
protected from Physical attacks, unauthorized access to the devices,
and Physical links should be limited. Tamper proof hardware can be use
in critical devices to prevent an attacker from compromising them in
case he gains Physical access to them. Also, Encryption of the keys and Key life cycle management
are necessary to protect the keys. Man-in-the-Middle is another common
Attack model cyber physical systems. In this type of Attack, an adversary intercepts
communication between two parties, captures original messages, and passes
altered messages between the parties. The attacker impersonates both parties and
controls communication. He can, for example, get an original
message, change some parameters, and then send the manipulated
message to the receiver. This is an active attack type because
it affects the behavior of the system. To mitigate the Man-in-the-Middle Attacks,
secure communication protocols should be used to prevent the attacker
from tampering the messages. We will look into subscript of graphic
solutions in later video lectures. In this lesson, we learned about
different attack models for cyber physical systems and also
discussed how to mitigate these attacks. In the next video lecture,
we will look into security issues for real world cyber physical system. [MUSIC]