[music].
i'm mostly selling you on the idea of  u-substitution, as a way to find  anti-derivatives.
but anti-differentiation is just a means  to an end.
the real goal, at this point in the  course, is evaluating definite integrals.
well, here's an example of a definite  integral.
let's evaluate the integral of 2x times x  squared plus 1 to the 3rd power dx.
as x goes from 0 to 2.  we can do it with u-substitution.
the substitution that i want to make is u  equals x squared plus 1, and in that case  du, what's the derivative of this, is 2x  dx.
and that's great 'cuz i've got a 2x dx  right there.
so, this integration problem becomes the  integral x goes from 0 to 2.  but what is the integrand now.
it's u cube du and i know the  anti-derivative of u cube is u to the  forth over 4 and i want to make sure that  i evaluate this when x equals to 0.  and 2.  now we replace u by x squared plus 1.  so this is x squared plus 1 to the 4th,  over 4.  and i want to evaluate at 0 and 2.  now we plug in x equals 2, and x equals  0, and take the difference.
okay, well when i plug in 2, i get 2  squared plus 1 to the 4th over 4.  and when i plug in 0, i get 0 squared  plus 1 to the 4th over 4.  what's 2 squared plus 1?
that's 5 to the 4th over 4 and that's 1  to the 4th, which is just 1.  a quarter.
and, now i got think about what's 5 to  the 4th?
well that's 25 times 25.  tha'ts 625 over 4 minus 1 over 4.  and, now i can combine these into a  single fraction, that's 624 over 4.  and that i can simplify a bit.
that's 156.  we did it.
but i could've finished this problem off  in a slightly different but equivalent  way.
let's back up, i'll get rid of this, and  let's suppose that i didn't go down this  path but i just stopped here.
the problem is that my endpoints are in  terms of x but my integrand now is in  terms of u.  so i'm just going to change those  endpoints.
so instead i'll see that, that  integration problem is the same as the  integral of u cubed du.
and when x is equal to 0, u is 1 and when  x is equal to 2, u is 2 squared plus 1,  which is 5.  so if i change the endpoint to be in term  of u, then i don't have to go back to x.  so again i know the anti-derivative, it's  u to the 4th over 4 and i'm evaluating  it.
at 5 and 1 in term of u and taking the  difference so when i plug in the 5, i  just get 5 to the 4th over 4 and when i  plug in 1 i just get 1 to the 4th over 4.  and 5 to the 4th is 25 squared which is  625 over 4.  and this is now the same as before.
minus a quarter and, just like before,  this ends up being 156.  let's summarize these two different  approaches.
the first time i went through this  problem, i found the antiderivative in  terms of x, alright?
i wanted to integrate this and i found an  antidirivitive and i just evaluated it at  b and a and took the difference.
in the second method, instead of finding  the antidirivitive in terms of x, i  change the endpoints to make the  endpoints be in terms of u.  so, i took this original problem and  after making the substitution u equals g  of x, then i rewrote the endpoints to go  from g of a to g of b in terms of u.  and then i found an antiderivative of f  prime u du and now f of u and i evaluated  that at g of b and g of a and took the  difference.
at the end of it i'm doing the same  calculation.
in both cases i'm calculating, you know,  f of g of b, f of g of b, and i'm  subtracting f of g of a, f of g of a, but  i"m setting it up slightly differently.
in the first case i'm finding the  anti-derivative in terms of x, and in the  second case, i'm changing the bounds on  the integral to be in terms of u.
