[MUSIC] Hello, welcome back. In this lesson,
we will talk about the parameters and use cases that will effect your selection
of an appropriate connectivity solution. We will first define the criteria and
then classify the protocols based on that. The very first thing you need to
do is define your project's need. Defining your need helps you in
selecting a protocol that offers the right amount of compromise
between you desired criteria. Some of these have been discussed
in detail in another video. Let's look at some of the basic ones here. Range defines the physical distance at
which a protocol can offer connectivity. If you want to build a citywide network, you need a solution that
has the longest range. If you want a room base network, you need
a solution that offers a shorter range. Longer range generally comes at the cost
of power consumption and data rate. This is not always the case, however. There certain exceptions,
as we will see later. If a protocol supports mesh networking,
you can create a long range network even if the range of
each individual device is short. Data rate is the amount of data, the protocol will allow you
to transfer in one second. Generally, you want to choose
a protocol that offers data rate close to your needs as higher data rates
means more power consumption. How much power does your protocol consume? If your device is battery powered, you would want to choose the protocol
that has the lowest power consumption. If your device is directly
connected to the power grid, this might not be an issue at all. Remote devices are generally
battery powered and require a solution that has
the lowest power consumption. Cost in terms of dollars
defines how much the addition of a certain module will cost. Complexity is defined
here in terms of time and resources that are required to make
the protocol functional in your design. Base on the criteria we defined,
let's classify the connectivity protocols. GSM or cellular technologies
offer the longest ranges for point to point communications
after several kilometers. They also offer very high data rates
starting from a few kilobytes per second, like Edge, enhanced data rates for GSM evolution to several megabytes
per second, for example, 4G LTE. This, of course, comes at a cost of higher
price, complexity and power consumption. There are however, other technologies
that offer long range are cheaper and very low power, but
also have a very low data rates. They are categorized as LPWANs
orLow-Power Wide-Area Networks. Example of these are LoRa, Long Range
Wireless Data Telemetry and SigFox. On the other hand, we have short range technologies that
offer both high and low data rates. The difference between them is again,
power consumption and cost. Low data rate technologies
consume significantly less power. For example, Bluetooth,
low energy and NFC or near-field communication and
are cheaper and less complex to deploy. High data rate ones like Wi-Fi and Ethernet are complex and
power inefficient. The three very high data rate
technologies that we have are cellular, Wi-Fi and Ethernet. All of them offers speeds of
several megabytes per second. Ethernets is fixed or
wired while the other two are wireless. Medium bandwidth technologies are Zigby, Bluetooth and Bluetooth Low Energy or BLE. These have a short range,
but a good battery life. There are some technologies that
you would use only for sensing or tagging as they offer short range,
low data rates. And generally,
very low storage capacity on each node, just enough to identify the item. For example, we could store the device ID,
web link or a few bytes of text. NFC and RFID are in this category. Power consumption is a very
important factor in deciding a connectivity solution. Most of the cyber-physical
systems comprise devices or nodes that are links wirelessly and
may not have direct access to power like, for example, remotes sensing solutions. In such a case, choosing the most
power efficient solution is suggested. This comes at the disadvantage
of lower data rates. Here on the screen,
we have divided the technologies into two categories where the differentiating
factor is range. Power consumption and
data rates vary, but not that much. Compared to Wi-Fi and Ethernet,
protocols like NFC, LoRa and Bluetooth have significant
lower power consumption. Cost per dollar is a factor,
if you are going to mass deploy a large set of devices or
if you aim at commercial production. As we discussed earlier,
you have to define your need first. That is what you essentially
require from your system. This requirement analysis will also
facilitate determining the cost. If your need is only a sensing solution,
you can go with LoRa or ZigBee. If it's identification only,
you can use NFC, which is even cheaper. If your systems require high data rates
and are stationary, use Ethernet. The cost will depend on
the needs of the system. Here we have an example case,
please read it through. What would your solution be? There is actually no unique solution,
because you could, in a way or another utilize any of these
technologies to accomplish the task, but we will look for
the most optimal solution. First, we have to identify your needs. In this case, you have three. The range is one kilometer. Update frequencies once per hour and
it's only about weather. So, the date is already
actually very low and you want to see the updates on your phone. Taking these into account, we can see that Bluetooth offers the data rate,
but not the range. Wi-Fi doesn't offer the range either, although it offers internet
connectivity and ubiquity. ZigBee offers the range and
the required data rate and power efficiency as an added bonus, but there is a higher probability that it
will not be supported by your phone and you will need a gateway to connect
it to the internet, for example. This will increase cost and complexity. GSM or
cellular technology offers the range, data rate and
the ability to be on the same network. As a once an hour update schedule, it can get the weather as a text message
from the weather station to your phone. So, this solution fulfills your
needs in the least complex way. And therefore,
it is the best one for this case. In this lesson, we learned how to choose
the right connectivity solution for a cyber-physical system. In the next video, we will learn about choosing
the right M2M communication protocol. [MUSIC]