[MUSIC] In this first module, we're in the process
of introducing objects studied by particle physics, namely matter,
forces and space-time. And in this context we must obviously
discuss scattering processes. In this fifth video, we will show how to
approach the scattering processes between particles in a quantum way. The goals for you are to identify
the conceptual differences between the classical approach
that we've used up to now, and the quantum evolution of a system. And to know how to draw
a Feynman diagram for simple scattering processes and
explain its ingredients. In video 1.4 Mercedes has calculated
the differential cross section for Coulomb scattering off a static target,
which is reproduced here. By lucky coincidence, the classical result is still valid
in a relativistic quantum context. The reasons are the following. The result of quantum theory
contains no factor of hbar. This means that the artificial limit hbar
going to zero which normally takes us back to the classical result will not
change the answer that we obtained. The classical result is also valid
in the relativistic regime already. This fact is not surprising, Maxwell's equations are valid for
relativistic velocities. After all,
they also include the motion of photons. We also do not need to take into account
nuclear interactions between projectile and target, since the alpha particle will
never penetrate into the target nucleus, even for a head-on collision. Only the electromagnetic force
acts outside the nuclear volume. But until now, we have discussed
the scattering process in a language adapted to classical physics. Now, we will change toolkit to
discuss the quantum approach. So while the classical results
stays valid in the quantum regime, the interpretation is totally different. Particles may well be point-like but
they move like a probability wave. Also, because of Heisenberg's principle,
the impact perimeter b has no more role in our consideration. We must use a scenario à la Huygen to
understand how scattering works. This means that the target particle will
be the origin of a new scattered wave, which will add to the incoming
wave of the projectile. The classical trajectory is replaced
by the wave function psi(x), as we've mentioned earlier. It contains the particle aspect, energy and
momentum, and the wave expect, frequency and wave number,
of the kinematics at the same time. Before the scattering, the projectile
is described by a plane wave in the x direction in our little example. Here we have also normalized
the amplitude to one for simplicity. Huygens' principle says
that a small fraction f of the incident amplitude will be
spherically re-emitted by the target. The factor 1/r in
the scattered amplitude is necessary. It ensures that the number of scattered
particles, psi* psi, remains independent of distance. The remaining amplitude (1-f)
continues as an unperturbed plane wave. As a consequence of the wave approach we
must also reinterpret the cross section in terms of intensities of incoming and
scattered wave. This means that we now look for
a relation between the cross section and the scattered amplitude f(theta,phi). The square of the second term is
proportional to the number of particles scattered into a volume
subtended by a solid angle dOmega, and the radial thickness dr. It represents the scattered flux. For a normalized incident wave
the particle density is rho=1. Thus the incident flux is simply rho times
the velocity, or the velocity itself. The ratio between the scattered and the incoming flux is precisely
the cross section. We find a simple result,
f is the probability amplitude for our scattering process. And sigma = f^2
is the scattering probability itself. The amplitude f is calculable if we know
the potential generated by the target, just like in the classical sense. To visualize reactions between particles
and calculate their probability, we use a very, very useful tool
which is called Feynman diagrams. They represent lines of propagation
of particles in coordinates E and p. Not in space-time but in momentum space. They also represent the vertices of
an interaction, that is the points where a force particle is emitted or
absorbed to transmit energy and momentum. Finally they represent the virtual
particles living between two vertices. Those have the properties of
their real counter part, but not the mass of a free particle. Feynman diagrams are a useful
visualization of a reaction but also a prescription for
calculating their probability amplitude. One does that by applying
what is called Feynman rules. At each vertex energy, momentum, and
quantum numbers are rigorously conserved. The virtual particle transfers
energy momentum from one of these particles to the other one, thus a force
act between the projectile and the target. Details on how to construct a Feynman
diagram will be discussed in module 4 when we talk about electromagnetic
interactions in a quantum way. For each type of elementary
interaction there is a spin one boson transmitting the force as
we have explained before. They are collectively called gauge bosons. The photon transmits electromagnetic
interactions, the W and Z bosons transmit the two
forms of weak interactions. And the eight different
gluons are responsible for transmitting strong interactions. To absorb or emit one of these bosons a particle
must carry the required type of charge. In our jargon we say the boson
couples to a given charge. The charge is thus a coupling constant. It needs electrical charge
Q to couple to the photon. Q has one component. It needs weak isospin T and
T_3 to couple to W and Z. This charge has two components. It needs color charge R,
G or B to couple to gluons. This charge has three components. The probability amplitude to emit or absorb a gauge boson is proportional
to the charge of the particle. The probability is thus proportional to
the square of the charge as we found for Rutherford scattering already. In the Feynman diagram at each vertex
energy and momentum are conserved. But do not forget that virtual
particles which relate two vertices do not necessarily have the mass
of their real counterpart nor even a real number as their mass. At each vertex charges as
well as baryon and lepton number are conserved. Flavor is conserved by electromagnetic and strong interactions as we stated
before but not by the weak one. Charge weak interactions transmitted by a
W boson in fact change a particle flavor. Here are a few examples of allowed and
forbidden vertices. Let's start in the top row on the left. In this top left diagram, neither
the photon nor the Z boson
can change the flavor of the lepton. The electron must thus stay an electron. In the second top diagram from the left, conservation of charge requires that
the emitted W boson has a negative charge. We can only emit a negative boson. On the right-hand diagram, we show
a diagram that does simply not exist. Since the electron does not carry color
charge, it cannot emit or absorb a gluon so this diagram is simply non-existant. Now let's go through the bottom
row of these diagrams. On the left you find a u quark
that emits a photon or a Z. Neither of these two particles
can change the flavor of the quark such that it must stay a u
quark and cannot become any other quark. In the middle diagram, the flavor changes. The u quark becomes a d
quark by emitting a W. And if you make the balance of
the charges you start out with a plus two-third charge and you come out
with a minus one-third charge quark. So you must emit a W^+
to conserve charge. The right-most diagram is
a diagram of strong interactions. The incoming red d quark emits a gluon and
becomes a green d quark. And in order to conserve color the quantum
numbers carried by the gluon must be red, anti-green. On the other hand, the gluon is
not able to change the flavor of the particles such that the d
quark must indeed stay at d quark. In the next video we will visit
the laboratory of the nuclear physics course at University of Geneva to
see how our students go about to measure the Rutherford cross-section. [MUSIC]