So here we briefly, I briefly conclude
this course with some remarks. So in this course I discussed
interactive techniques and systems for visual problem solving. And interactive,
I mean not fully automatic. So instead of asking system
to do the everything. Or we try to augment human activity. So user do something, and then computer
tries to provide help or assistance. And also this course was
about visual problem solving. And by visual problem
solving [COUGH] we try to. Assist all the aspects of human
visual problem solving, which means a comprehension owing input input
information and those are conceptions of a new solutions and the communication
was a new idea to the others. And we hope that the we presented here can
be helpful to assist these activities. And just a recap. So in this course we
discussed these topics. We first discussed improvements
to graphical user interfaces. And then we discussed how to make some
2D drawings and how to animate them. And then we discussed
how to create 3D models. From architectural shapes,
or organic shapes and so on. And then we discuss how to deform it,
change shape, and also make animate them along the timeline. And then we, we move out to,
go into the real world and then we discuss how to fabricate
3D models as a real object. And also we discuss how to leverage
real-time physical simulation for assistance, for assisting the design or
physically valid objects. And then finally we discuss
interaction techniques with computing systems working
in the real world. And I think these are techniques and ideas, presented in this course
can be applicable to many, many. Areas are for medicine, sports, engineering,
fashion and science and so on. So I hope you apply what you learned here,
to your own programs. So that's basically it and here I want to address one frequently
asked questions I got, after I giving. Similar talks other places. The question I get most
frequently is like this. How do you conceive these
interesting new original ideas? Well this is not exactly
related to this course topic, but I think this is a good opportunity
to address this, discuss this thing. And the obvious answer is of course,
there is no easy answer, you know? There's no easy solution,
you have to work hard. But still, there's a couple tips
that I want to discuss here. So what I want to present here,
is three things. In order to get new ideas, new solutions,
you have to do three things. You have to think hard. You have to learn a lot,
and you have to try a lot, and I think many people say the same
thing in many different context, but let me describe this in my own words here. So first, you have to think hard. As a student, you may have limited
experience of thinking one program for a long time. Maybe, thinking a program,
ten minutes, one hour, few hours. However, if we want to really
solve a problem as a professional, you have to think long time, persistently. Not one day, not few days, few weeks,
even a few months, to solve a problem. And sometimes, it takes few years or
ten years, to solve a problem. And in some,
if you think about the problem for long enough, at some point,
you may come up with a new solution. So you have to think hard. And, you should not just think abse,
absently. You should focus on, on it,
and systematically explore. You have to consider option A, B, C and then within A again you
have sub options, A, B, C. So you should think about the program,
if it doesn't work, if it doesn't work, you have to move to the second prob,
second possibilities, and so on, so you should be very systematic,
like a playing a game, chess game. And then, as I said,
you should be persistent. You should be,
thinking about a particular problem for long time, but at the same time, you
should be not focused on a single topic. You should, thinking about
the parallel problem simultaneously, then somewhere with the problem,
you come up with a solution. But you, it's very important to do
it in parallel for a long time. So next thing is learning. You cannot get everything by yourself. You should learn from others. So oh, but the problem is that
learning is easy because so many information is available. The program is just too many information. So there,
it's very important to be efficient. So you should not try to
understand everything. You should try to get the essence. Efficiently. And a good tip is to learn classics and
also recent ones. And ignore in the middle. So, any research topic, any topic has
a long history from the beginning, also intermediate experiences in the mid,
in the past, and recent one. And my recommendation is study the
original one, because it's very new, and it's very inspiring. But and also, the recent one. The recent one is a result
of long research history. Long exploration. So it contains the information,
obtained in the long long days. So I recommend you to take out
the beginning, the first one, and also the recent ones. And also talk to experts. It's tentative it's tentative, temptive to just learn
everything through the Internet. You can, it seems like you can
get from everything from the net. However, it's more efficient actually and
more productive just to talk to experts. And then you can learn a lot more
directly from from them, talking to them. Meet people. So finally, just thinking and
just learning is not enough. You cannot get anything. You should try. So do it yourself. So in computer science, what it means
is you should implement it and test it. And even if the idea is not so promise, promising, if you implement it,
you can get more ideas. And more information. So you can learn a lot and you can think,
you can get more inspirations. So yeah. So this is basically a Rapid Prototyping. So if you want to produce something new, you should prototype many
variation systematically. And you eventually get a,
very sophisticated solution. Okay. So if you want to learn
more here's a tips. So as I said,
anything is available on the net. You can get anything. But you cannot learn everything. So my recommendation is pick what is
most interesting for you, and master it. You know, implement it,
learn it, think about it. So instead of trying to
understand everything, very widely, you should focus
on single thing, and then. Last eight. And I hope, this course helps you
to find interesting topic for you. Anything like fabrication, or
2D graphics, 3D modeling, or maybe the other world interaction. Something you, catches your heart and I hope help you explore it further,
by yourself. So if you want to know more good resources
starting is academic conferences. So they are the best place to get
the latest most polished result. So Walk, we introduce, I introduce in
this course are all first appeared as a publication in these conferences. So if you want to know
what's going on recently, you should take a look
at these conferences. Most resources like papers and
videos are available on the net. And if you want to learn more,
you can go to, to the conference and meet people and have discussion. And finally I want to say thank you
to all collaborators of the works I presented in this course. So of course, we can,
I cannot do everything by myself. And the result, the project presented in
this course, was a result of hard work, of all these collaborators. So I would like to,
thank you to all of these people. So, that's the end of this course,
and thank you for joining us. Bye.