[MUSIC] During this second module, we deal with
nuclear physics and its applications. In this second video, we will summarize what is known about
the size and the spin of nuclei. The goals for you are to know how nuclear
size is measured and what the results are. To know general facts
about the spin of nuclei. And to be able to describe the valley
of stability of nuclei as a function of the number of protons and
neutrons. The size of a subatomic object
must be carefully defined. In a quantum system, it is given by
the root mean square of the eigenvalue of the coordinate operator
in its ground state. For an atom, this is the root mean square
of the radial position of the electron, which is farthest away from the nucleus. This distance can be calculated
because we know perfectly the binding electromagnetic force and because it is defined with
respect to a static reference point, the position of the nucleus. For the nucleus, we do not have
a simple description of these actions. So we must interpret
the results of experiments, which probe the distribution of
nucleons inside the nucleus. It will be unwise to use
hadronic probes to do so because they are sensitive
to the nuclear force. High energy electrons, on the contrary,
can penetrate inside the nucleus and their scattering maps out the charge
distribution of the target. The cross section for a point-like target without spin is given
by the Mott formula displayed here. If the charge instead is
distributed according to a volume density rho(x),
leaving the total charge intact, the cross section will be
reduced by form factor F(q), which is a function of
the momentum transfer q. For a static target, F(q) is the Fourier transform of
the spatial charge distribution. For small momentum transfers, we can develop the form
factor in a Taylor series. If the distribution is
spherically symmetric, the terms with an odd power drop out. And the dominant second term is
proportional to the mean square radius, <r^2> of the charge distribution. And this can serve as a size estimator for
the nucleus. For an exponential charge distribution, the form factor takes what
is called a dipolar form. The dependence of the electron nucleus
cross section on the momentum transfer for small angle scattering
at high electron energies is thus used to measure
the size of the nucleus. Scattering experiments establish
a simple relation between the radius of a nucleus R and
the number of nucleons A. The radius is proportional to the cube
root of the number of nucleons, with a universal proportionality
constant of 1.2 femtometers. Nuclei are thus indeed small
compared to the atomic size. The nuclear volume is proportional to A. This corresponds to densely packed and
incompressible nucleons, which do not fuse. The mass density of nuclear matter is
of the order of 10^14 grams per cm^3. Nuclear spin is the sum of the spin
S of all individual nucleons and the relative angular momentum, L. Protons and
neutrons are fermions with spin one-half. Like in atoms, the nuclear angular momentum L
follows an integer quantum number. The total should therefore be a
half integer number if A is odd, an integer if A is even. Indeed, all nuclei with both N and
Z even have nuclear spin 0. Heavy nuclei have rather small
nuclear spin in their ground state. We conclude that neutrons and protons tend to arrange in pairs
of opposite spin direction. Every charged particle has a magnetic
dipole moment associated with its spin, including the nuclei. The order of magnitude for an electron
is given by the Bohr magneton, µ_B. The nuclear magneton is three orders
of magnitude smaller due to the larger proton mass. The gyromagnetic factor g measures
the ratio between the angular momentum and the magnetic moment. For a point charge,
g is about 2 with small deviation of order 10^-3 for electrons and
muons as we will see in module 4. The magnetic moments of proton and
neutron are considerably different, +2.79 and -1.91 nuclear magnetons, respectively. This is the first indication of
a charged substructure of the nucleons. In fact, since the neutron has zero net
charge, it must contain charged particles. All nuclei have measured magnetic
moments between minus three and ten nuclear magnetons, thus,
relatively small ones. This is a consequence of
the spin pairings of nucleons, leading to a limited total
nuclear angular momentum. Most nuclei and
their isotopes are unstable. Stable nuclei are found in a narrow band, in the N-Z diagram which is
called the valley of stability. The valley has the following shape. For lighter nuclei with
atomic mass less than 40, the number of neutrons equals
the number of protons. For heavy nuclei with
atomic mass bigger than 40, the number of neutrons is about
1.7 times the number of protons. This indicates that for
heavy nuclei, the charge density, and thus the Coulomb repulsion must
be diluted by additional neutrons. The decay of unstable nuclei is
the source of nuclear radioactivity. Alpha radioactivity is
the emission of He-4 nuclei or so-called alpha particles. Beta radioactivity is
the emission of electrons or positrons together with neutrinos. And gamma radioactivity is
the emission of photons. Nuclei with a surplus of
neutrons can be stabilized by converting a neutron into a proton. And those with the surplus of protons
can convert a proton into a neutron. These are isobar decays of
type beta plus or minus. Heavy nuclei often decay into
a pair of lighter nuclei. This corresponds to spontaneous fission,
often by emitting a He-4 nucleus. This is the alpha decay. This decay is normally related to
an excited state of the daughter nucleus. And they're often followed by a gamma
decay towards the ground states. We will enter into more detail on
these processes in the fourth and fifth video of this module. So let us summarize what we have
learned about the nuclear force. It has a very short range
limited to the nuclear size. The binding energy per nucleon it leads to
is independent of the size of the nucleus. The nucleon thus interacts only
with its nearest neighbors. The nuclear force is attractive and much stronger than the Coulomb
repulsion between protons. But it must also have a repulsive
component at distances compatible to the size of the nucleon,
which is about 1 femtometer. This is due to the existence of
quarks inside the nucleon. The repulsive component is necessary
to prevent the fusion among nucleons. QCD is a quantum field
theory which describes the interaction among colored particles, so quarks inside hadrons, via the exchange of
equally colored gluons. But the strong force acts only inside
hadrons, which thus have a zero net color. Nucleons cannot exchange gluons. It is by the exchange of colorless objects
like mesons that they bind together. This makes the nucleus a complex multibody
object, which is difficult to understand. The appropriate theoretical methods
are effective field theories like Chiral Perturbation Theory or
a numerical calculation like Lattice QCD. All of this goes beyond
the scope of this course. In the next video, we will rather
concentrate on much simpler models, which describe the gross
features of nuclei. [MUSIC]