[MUSIC] During this fourth module
we're going into more details on the properties of
electromagnetic interactions. In this second video, electromagnetic
scattering is analyzed in terms of invariant amplitudes and cross section. After following this video you
will know Fermi's Golden Rule. The scattering amplitude of a particle
in an electromagnetic potential, how the target particle
generates this potential and the difference between distinguishable and
undistinguishable processes. In the previous video we have seen how the
cross section for a scattering process is measured by normalizing the reaction
rate by the luminosity. For one incoming projectile
on a single target particle, the cross-section is
also calculable quantity. The main ingredient is, again, the probability that both interact by
exchanging an intermediate gauge boson. This probability, or rather its amplitude, is calculable in a quantum field
theory based on a gauge principle. One can thus compare experiment and
theory in good precision for both. Such comparison can test the theory and determine is parameters like masses and
coupling constants. The prescription for the calculation of a cross-section
is called Fermi's Golden Rule. In scattering theory
the reaction rate, W, is given as the product between
|M|^2 times Q, with invariant scattering amplitude M and
the density of final state Q. The latter is also called
the phase space factor. It takes into account the number
of states, in the quantum sense, that the final state can contain. 
The more there are, the more probable the reaction becomes. For a four body reaction a + b -> c + d, the amplitude M can be interpreted
as the probability amplitude of the process that converts the initial
states into the final state. It is therefore a probability amplitude
in the same sense as the wave function, and its square is a probability density. To obtain the cross section we still have to normalize by the flux
of incident projectiles. This may seem surprising for
a single projectile, but the flux is the number of projectiles
per second and per unit surface. Here is then Fermi's Golden Rule for
cross sections. It is obtained by properly normalizing
the probability of the reaction, and contains both this probability
|M|^2, the incoming flux F, and the phase space factor Q. The incident flux for the initial state
depends on the relative velocity, the modulus of (v_a- v_b), and the volume density of projectile and
target. This volume density must be
proportional to the energy of the two particles to be
relatively equally invariant. In our normalization, it is simply
equal to twice the energy for a single particle per unit volume. The second equation is valid for
the two velocities, v_a and v_b, parallel. and clearly shows the invariance of the flux
factor under Lorentz transformations. The phase space factor, dQ, takes into account the number of states
which can be realized by the final state. It contains a delta function that ensures
the conservation of the energy-momentum, as well as the number of quantum states
for all the particles in the final state. The factors of twice the energies, again, come from the way we normalize
the wave functions. How does one proceed to calculate
the invariant amplitude? We will outline the argument for
this simple case of scalar fields. We mentioned that to first order
one local action of the potential V(x) will transform the initial state
Phi_a into the final state Phi_c. The probability amplitude of this process,
ignoring the normalization factors for the moment, is given by this integral. The argument of the integral is
the probability of finding the state Phi_c at position x at the time t among all states produced by the potential
V from the initial state of Phi_a. The integration over space-time
reflects the fact that this local interaction can occur wherever
the potential is present. To help your intuition, imagine
that the two wave functions Phi_a and Phi_c correspond to free particles
everywhere, except at the place and time where the potential intervenes. The initial state Phi_a will
be a superposition of eigenstates of the free Hamiltonial with
a given set of coefficients. The potential will change these coefficients
to produce another superposition of eigenstates with a different
set of coefficients. The amplitude M is then
just the amplitude of the final state Phi_c,
which contains the new mixture. The invariant amplitude M contains
all the dynamics of a reaction, Thus the whole physics of the type
of interaction under study. It therefore follows from
the potential operator V. This is the same operator which changes
the homogenous equation of motion into an inhomogenous ones. For electromagnetic interactions, the inhomogeneous equation is derived
from the Klein-Gordon equation by the so-called minimal substitution. To struct this
potential will neglect terms proportional to e^2 which is very
much smaller than one. The invariant amplitude is then given by
an integral over the product of the four-potential of the target, and the current density j_µ of
the projectile. The invariant amplitude of
electromagnetic scattering off a fixed target is thus the integral over
the product between the transition current of the projectile and the electromagnetic
potential of the target. Note that this is a local interaction. Current and potential are defined
at the same point in space-time. But this point may be anywhere. Thus an integral over space-time
gives us the total amplitude. The electromagnetic current density
at work here looks like that for a free particle, except that the fields in the initial and final states are not the same
since there was an interaction. So the electromagnetic current density
interacts locally with the potential A^µ, which we identify with the photon field. It remains to be understood how
this potential is generated. That is, how the photon is produced? For electromagnetic interaction,
the Maxwell equations tell us how the electromagnetic fields
are produced by charges and currents. Let us start by writing down
the homogeneous Maxwell equations in four-vector form, using the electromagnetic
field tensor F^munu. Translating into equations for the potential this gives four differential
equations for the four-potential A^nu. Using the invariance of the potential under the gauge transformations with
an arbitrary scalar field xi(x), we can always rearrange things so
that a A^µ has no divergence. We call this arrangement the Lorenz gauge. In this gauge the homogeneous Maxwell
equations are nothing else than four Klein-Gordon equations for
the components of the potential. But only three components
are independent of each other because of the gauge condition. This justifies that we consider
the homogeneous Maxwell equations as the equation of motion for
the photon, which is a vector boson and thus has three independent components. In the presence of a current,
the equations become inhomogeneous. There is a source j_µ, on the right. We construct j_µ from the wave
function of the two other partners in the reaction,
the target particle b and its final state d. Their transition current
is the source of the field. The potential A_µ that corresponds to this
situation is proportional to this current density and inversely proportion to
the square of the transfered momentum q. The invariant amplitude thus corresponds
to the interaction between two currents. The intervening factor 1/q^2
is called the photon propagator. It described the probability
amplitude that a photon with four-momentum q is exchanged
between the two currents. Since each current density brings in
a factor of e as a calling constant the amplitude is proportional
to e^2/q^2. This process can be represented by
a feynman diagram as shown in this slide. These diagrams describe elementary
processes in a manner that is both elegant and intuitive. If the construction of the Feynman diagram
for a given process is still a problem for you, please go back to
the optional video 4.1a. At the same time Feynman
diagrams are a prescription for the corresponding invariant amplitude. The vertices are characterized
by coupling constant, the electric charge in the case
of electromagnetic interactions, and an operator which describes
the properties of the interactions. The lines correspond to the propagators of particles, real ones for external lines,
virtual ones for internal lines connecting two vertices. The propagator 1/q^2 we
found for the photon is a special case for the more general one, which is 
1/(q^2 minus the square of the mass) for massive intermediate vector bosons. If more than one elementary process
can cause a reaction we must either add the amplitudes or
the cross-sections. Because of the quantum nature of
the processes there exist two cases. If initial and final states of
the processes are indistinguishable, one must add the amplitudes. If there is an observable,
which allows in principle to distinguish different contributions, no matter if
it is actually measured or not, these processes are distinguishable and
one must then sum the cross sections. The first case occurs of course for
example if one considers two contribution of different orders
in the coupling constant. The exchange of one of two photons
can intervene between the same initial final state as shown
in the picture in the left. If the two amplitudes M_1, M_2 describe
the two contributions, the square of the total amplitude, which leads
to the cross section, is then |M_1|^2 + |M_2|^2 + 2M_1M_2. is then |M_1|^2 + |M_2|^2 + 2M_1M_2. So this last term is an
interference term with appears in the probability. This is precisely not the case if
the processes are distinguishable in principle. Take the example of different
spin directions of the particles that interact. These are observable in principle. As in the example shown in the right, an unpolarized initial
state corresponds to a mixture of all possible spin orientations
in equal proportion. We must therefore average
the cross-section or the squared amplitude over the spin
direction of the initial particles to calculate the cross-section for
an unpolarized initial state. If one does not distinguish
the polarization of particles in the final state either, one must
sum the cross-section corresponding to the spin direction of
the final state particles. The square of the amplitude resulting from
both operations, averaging over initial spin and
summing over final spin, is denoted by |M|^2-bar. In the next video we'll discuss fermion
spin and its consequences in more depth. [MUSIC]