[music] during this fourth module we're going into more details on the properties of electromagnetic interactions.
in this second video, electromagnetic scattering is analyzed in terms of invariant amplitudes and cross section.
after following this video you will know fermi's golden rule.
the scattering amplitude of a particle in an electromagnetic potential, how the target particle generates this potential and the difference between distinguishable and undistinguishable processes.
in the previous video we have seen how the cross section for a scattering process is measured by normalizing the reaction rate by the luminosity.
for one incoming projectile on a single target particle, the cross-section is also calculable quantity.
the main ingredient is, again, the probability that both interact by exchanging an intermediate gauge boson.
this probability, or rather its amplitude, is calculable in a quantum field theory based on a gauge principle.
one can thus compare experiment and theory in good precision for both.
such comparison can test the theory and determine is parameters like masses and coupling constants.
the prescription for the calculation of a cross-section is called fermi's golden rule.
in scattering theory the reaction rate, w, is given as the product between |m|^2 times q, with invariant scattering amplitude m and the density of final state q. the latter is also called the phase space factor.
it takes into account the number of states, in the quantum sense, that the final state can contain.
the more there are, the more probable the reaction becomes.
for a four body reaction a + b -> c + d, the amplitude m can be interpreted as the probability amplitude of the process that converts the initial states into the final state.
it is therefore a probability amplitude in the same sense as the wave function, and its square is a probability density.
to obtain the cross section we still have to normalize by the flux of incident projectiles.
this may seem surprising for a single projectile, but the flux is the number of projectiles per second and per unit surface.
here is then fermi's golden rule for cross sections.
it is obtained by properly normalizing the probability of the reaction, and contains both this probability |m|^2, the incoming flux f, and the phase space factor q. the incident flux for the initial state depends on the relative velocity, the modulus of (v_a- v_b), and the volume density of projectile and target.
this volume density must be proportional to the energy of the two particles to be relatively equally invariant.
in our normalization, it is simply equal to twice the energy for a single particle per unit volume.
the second equation is valid for the two velocities, v_a and v_b, parallel.
and clearly shows the invariance of the flux factor under lorentz transformations.
the phase space factor, dq, takes into account the number of states which can be realized by the final state.
it contains a delta function that ensures the conservation of the energy-momentum, as well as the number of quantum states for all the particles in the final state.
the factors of twice the energies, again, come from the way we normalize the wave functions.
how does one proceed to calculate the invariant amplitude?
we will outline the argument for this simple case of scalar fields.
we mentioned that to first order one local action of the potential v(x) will transform the initial state phi_a into the final state phi_c.
the probability amplitude of this process, ignoring the normalization factors for the moment, is given by this integral.
the argument of the integral is the probability of finding the state  phi_c at position x at the time t among all states produced by the potential v from the initial state of phi_a.
the integration over space-time reflects the fact that this local interaction can occur wherever the potential is present.
to help your intuition, imagine that the two wave functions phi_a and phi_c correspond to free particles everywhere, except at the place and time where the potential intervenes.
the initial state phi_a will be a superposition of eigenstates of the free hamiltonial with a given set of coefficients.
the potential will change these coefficients to produce another superposition of eigenstates with a different set of coefficients.
the amplitude m is then just the amplitude of the final state phi_c, which contains the new mixture.
the invariant amplitude m contains all the dynamics of a reaction, thus the whole physics of the type of interaction under study.
it therefore follows from the potential operator v. this is the same operator which changes the homogenous equation of motion into an inhomogenous ones.
for electromagnetic interactions, the inhomogeneous equation is derived from the klein-gordon equation by the so-called minimal substitution.
to struct this potential will neglect terms proportional to e^2 which is very much smaller than one.
the invariant amplitude is then given by an integral over the product of the  four-potential of the target, and the current density j_âµ of the projectile.
the invariant amplitude of electromagnetic scattering off a fixed target is thus the integral over the product between the transition current of the projectile and the electromagnetic potential of the target.
note that this is a local interaction.
current and potential are defined at the same point in space-time.
but this point may be anywhere.
thus an integral over space-time gives us the total amplitude.
the electromagnetic current density at work here looks like that for a free particle, except that the fields in the initial and final states are not the same since there was an interaction.
so the electromagnetic current density interacts locally with the potential a^âµ, which we identify with the photon field.
it remains to be understood how this potential is generated.
that is, how the photon is produced?
for electromagnetic interaction, the maxwell equations tell us how the electromagnetic fields are produced by charges and currents.
let us start by writing down the homogeneous maxwell equations in four-vector form, using the electromagnetic field tensor f^munu.
translating into equations for the potential this gives four differential equations for the four-potential a^nu.
using the invariance of the potential under the gauge transformations with an arbitrary scalar field xi(x), we can always rearrange things so that a a^âµ has no divergence.
we call this arrangement the lorenz gauge.
in this gauge the homogeneous maxwell equations are nothing else than four klein-gordon equations for the components of the potential.
but only three components are independent of each other because of the gauge condition.
this justifies that we consider the homogeneous maxwell equations as the equation of motion for the photon, which is a vector boson and thus has three independent components.
in the presence of a current, the equations become inhomogeneous.
there is a source j_âµ, on the right.
we construct j_âµ from the wave function of the two other partners in the reaction, the target particle b and its final state d. their transition current is the source of the field.
the potential a_âµ that corresponds to this situation is proportional to this current density and inversely proportion to the square of the transfered momentum q. the invariant amplitude thus corresponds to the interaction between two currents.
the intervening factor 1/q^2 is called the photon propagator.
it described the probability amplitude that a photon with four-momentum q is exchanged between the two currents.
since each current density brings in a factor of e as a calling constant the amplitude is proportional to e^2/q^2.
this process can be represented by a feynman diagram as shown in this slide.
these diagrams describe elementary processes in a manner that is both elegant and intuitive.
if the construction of the feynman diagram for a given process is still a problem for you, please go back to the optional video 4.1a.
at the same time feynman diagrams are a prescription for the corresponding invariant amplitude.
the vertices are characterized by coupling constant, the electric charge in the case of electromagnetic interactions, and an operator which describes the properties of the interactions.
the lines correspond to the propagators of particles, real ones for external lines, virtual ones for internal lines connecting two vertices.
the propagator 1/q^2 we found for the photon is a special case for the more general one, which is  1/(q^2 minus the square of the mass)  for massive intermediate vector bosons.
if more than one elementary process can cause a reaction we must either add the amplitudes or the cross-sections.
because of the quantum nature of the processes there exist two cases.
if initial and final states of the processes are indistinguishable, one must add the amplitudes.
if there is an observable, which allows in principle to distinguish different contributions, no matter if it is actually measured or not, these processes are distinguishable and one must then sum the cross sections.
the first case occurs of course for example if one considers two contribution of different orders in the coupling constant.
the exchange of one of two photons can intervene between the same initial final state as shown in the picture in the left.
if the two amplitudes m_1, m_2 describe the two contributions, the square of the total amplitude, which leads to the cross section, is then |m_1|^2 + |m_2|^2 + 2m_1m_2.
is then |m_1|^2 + |m_2|^2 + 2m_1m_2.
so this last term is an interference term with appears in the probability.
this is precisely not the case if the processes are distinguishable in principle.
take the example of different spin directions of the particles that interact.
these are observable in principle.
as in the example shown in the right,  an unpolarized initial state corresponds to a mixture of all possible spin orientations in equal proportion.
we must therefore average the cross-section or the squared amplitude over the spin direction of the initial particles to calculate the cross-section for an unpolarized initial state.
if one does not distinguish the polarization of particles in the final state either, one must sum the cross-section corresponding to the spin direction of the final state particles.
the square of the amplitude resulting from both operations, averaging over initial spin and summing over final spin, is denoted by |m|^2-bar.
in the next video we'll discuss fermion spin and its consequences in more depth.
[music]
