So what would happen if
you lost all of your data? Have you ever considered
that it might happen to you? This module will introduce you to the
issues involved in storing, securing and backing up your research data. By the end, you'll be aware of the
different storage options available to you and will understand the importance of
data backup, security and encryption. At the very least, you'll be motivated
to avoid your own data loss scenario. According to a survey released in 2014 by
Kroll Ontrack, a provider of data recovery and e-discovery products and services,
hard disk drive crashes have more than doubled in the last four years, making
them the most common cause of data loss. When they surveyed over 1,000 customers
about the most common causes of data loss, 66% cited hard crash failure,
compared to 29% in 2010. This is followed by 14%
claiming human error. Software failure ranked as the third most
common cause of data loss with just 6%. Your data are the lifeblood
of your research. If you lose your data, recovery may
be slow, costly, or worse still, it may not even be possible. This is why it's so important to store and
back up your data securely. It's useful to think about how much
storage you'll require and plan for that from the outset. Also think about who will
need access to your data and what that means in terms of
where it should be stored. By considering these issues at the outset,
you can plan for them appropriately, and also include data management
costs in your grant applications. So where can you store your data securely
during the course of your research? There are various options such as
network drives, PCs and laptops, or external devices. Let's take a look at the pros and
cons of each of these. Network drives are managed
by staff centrally or those within your school,
department, or college. It's highly recommended that you
store your data to network drives. This means that there's
a single copy of your data, that you can access it whenever you need
to, and that it's backed up regularly. Most importantly,
it means that your data are held securely, minimizing the risk of loss,
damage, or unauthorized use. You can of course use PCs, laptops,
and other external storage devices, such as hard drives,
USB sticks, CDs, and DVDs. These can be a convenient option due
to their low cost and portability. However, they should never be used for
the master copy of your data. Laptops and PCs can be lost and stolen. And CDs, DVDs and
magnetic tapes all degrade over time. Errors writing to CDs and
DVDs are fairly common. And obviously, these can be lost,
misplaced, or damaged. If you choose to use CDs, DVDs or
memory sticks, pick high quality products from good manufacturers and
follow the care instructions provided. Regularly check the media to make
sure they're not failing and periodically refresh them. Refreshing means to copy your
files from one disk to another.