So what do we mean by data security? Data security means ensuring that
your research data are kept safe from corruption, and
that access is suitably controlled. >> It's important to consider the security
of your data to prevent accidental or malicious damage or modification,
theft, breach of confidentiality, and premature release of the data. >> Consider who'll need access to the data
and when and how you will enforce any permissions or restrictions needed
>> You should also have a clear policy and guidelines on who can make copies of the
data and whether these can be stored on mobile devices such as laptops,
smart phones or USB sticks. This is particularly important if
you're creating sensitive data. Making sure data is secure is part
of information technology security. You should always have
up-to-date antivirus software installed on your office and
home computers. If you have sensitive data, it's best to store them on a computer
that's not connected to any network. If this is impossible,
you should encrypt the data or the PC. Also bear in mind physical security. An unnetworked computer is still
vulnerable to theft or malicious damage or modification of the data. Highly sensitive data should be stored in
a locked room or a safe when not in use. Such data shouldn't be stored or
transmitted without encryption. One basic aspect of security, that's often
overlooked, is user names and passwords. There are some simple principles
that you should follow here. You shouldn't use your user name in your
email address or your Twitter handle. Try to use an alias instead. Avoid using really obvious phrases for
your password. Such as your car registration number,
your pet's name, your phone number or other dictionary words. You shouldn't write your password down
on Post-it notes or read it aloud, as you type it in. And you should avoid using
the same password for a cloud service that you use for
your university login. Last but not least,
you should avoid signing into secure sites from untrusted computers or
networks such as Internet cafes,