[MUSIC] In this sixth module, we are discussing
electro-weak interactions and the Higgs mechanism. In this 12th video, we will encounter the particle associated
with the Higgs field, the Higgs boson. After following this video,
you should know how the Higgs boson is produced at the LHC,
how we identify its production and decay, and how it is verified that it has
the properties required for a Higgs boson. The Higgs field is a microscopic
field that must be quantized. There is a particle which corresponds to
the Phi field, the scalar Higgs boson H0. All its properties were known
before it was discovered, except that we didn't know whether it
existed, and that we didn't know its mass. In particular, its branching ratio
into different fermion-antifermion or boson-boson pairs are fixed
once the mass is known. The Higgs boson can be produced as
a real particle at a hadron collider, provided its energy is sufficient. This is for
the first time the case at the LHC. Here we show some Feynman diagrams for the 
production of a Higgs boson from two protons, either by quarks or
by gluons in the initial state. The existence of the Higgs boson,
H0, has been confirmed in a spectacular way by the experiments
ATLAS and CMS at the LHC in 2012. Higgs boson production is detected,
among other methods, in the invariant mass distribution of
photon pairs, or pairs of Z bosons. The latter ones decay, in turn,
into lepton-antilepton pairs, which are then observed in the detector. A four-lepton event from the ATLAS
experiment, with four muons in the final state, serves as the logo of this course,
so you've seen it many times. The signal at the mass of about 125 GeV
sticks out clearly above the background of other production mechanisms which
do not involve Higgs bosons. On the left, you see the invariant
mass distributions of two photons which has a peak at 125 GeV, and
on the right you see the invariant mass of the four-lepton system that comes
from a Higgs decay into Z-Z pairs. Indeed, we have here a second
nice example of particle mass measurement through
the invariant mass of its decay products. The measurements from the two experiments
at the LHC give compatible results which can be combined. And this determines today the mass of
the Higgs boson H0 to be 125 GeV with a precision of about 250 MeV, that is
accurate to about two parts per thousand. This is a remarkable achievement by these
experiments and is the fruit of the work of thousands of physicists and
engineers during two decades. The experimental findings today
can be summarized as follows. The H0 is clearly
a well-established new particle. The probability that background fluctuates
upwards to simulate the signal is of the order of one to
several hundred million. It is indeed a boson because
it decays into two photons. It very probably has spin zero. Its couplings to different
particles are indeed proportional to their apparent masses, as they should. Here we show a summary of
results from the CMS experiment. The only particle or coupling that is missing here
is the Higgs coupling to itself, since the Higgs boson should also be
responsible for generating its own mass. So that will come in the future. So, we are sure already at this point
that H0 is indeed a Higgs boson. This, however, does not exclude the
existence of other bosons of this type, which are obviously actively
hunted by experiments at the LHC. In the next module, and Anna will go into
more details about how to search for new phenomena in the challenging
environment of a hadron collider. If you want to know more about the Higgs
mechanism and its working principles, I recommend these three episodes of
the excellent series Minute Physics from the Perimeter Institute in Waterloo,
Canada. You will easily find them on YouTube. To conclude our discussion of the Higgs
boson, the next video contains an interview with one of the key people
who contributed to its discovery. [SOUND]