thank you so much for coming to speak to us today.
could you just tell us in a couple of sentences who you are and what you do as a researcher?
what your research is about.
>> yep, my name is natalia calanzani, i'm a research fellow at the university of edinburgh.
and i currently work on the feasibility study, trying to increase the uptake of bowel cancer screening.
so that involves a database analysis but we're still waiting on our data set, and collecting data in primary care.
>> great, can i ask what are your strategies for file management, file naming, versioning, just generally organizing data?
and how does that help you and your collaborator's make sense of the collected data and leave an audit trail for yourselves?
>> so, we have a server here at the university where we store every file from the project.
and only the researchers who have received ethical approval to check those files, they can access those.
and we name the files based on their versions and the dates they were created.
and we try to use underscores instead of spaces because we know that depending on the system you're using, if you have spaces you might have problems.
and this is important for us to be consistent but also so we make sure we're using the file which was been approved by ethics.
because we end up having so many different versions.
so, it's good for you to keep track of what exactly you are using.
and i have to admit that we could improve because when the file becomes obsolete we are still keeping those there so it is quite cluttered at the moment .so we couldn't improve on that >> do you rely on institutional storage and back up systems in the course of your research?
and how do you know your data are being kept secure?
>> yes, so if you're dealing with patient data and identifiable information, it's very likely that it's going to be mandatory for you to write forms and applications.
lots of applications explaining how data are kept secure.
and here at the university, information services has helped us to develop those forms.
and they have explained to us how our data are stored, and how the backup systems worked.
and they helped us develop a diagram showing how we access data, and how the data are protected.
so i think we're quite certain that everything is well kept and protected.
>> and what are some of the methods available to you to protect patient confidentiality.
>> so we for the patient databases, like i mentioned, we're not allowed to publish anything for less than five cases.
if you had less than five cases of a rare condition or something you're not supposed to report that.
and of course, we're not allowed to copy these data sets to our own computers.
they all stay secure in the server.
>> we don't copy them to sb6 as well, for example, and that avoids a lot of issues.
and only people who have received approval to access these data sets, they access this data.
in terms of the patient form that we have that collect data and primary care practices, these are kept locked in cabinets in our offices.
>> well, thank you very much and good luck with your research.
>> thank you.
