do you think data sharing helps to reduce waste and increase transparency of research?
>> i guess this is another very obvious question and the answer must be yes because we produce tons of data, which are basically just lost because no one gets to know about it.
some of that data is useless because we not always create data that was done rather properly and so forth.
but we have a lot of data which is extremely useful, which goes into our reports, into our papers.
but, it's usually not the original data, it's usually just a means and compound data.
and so sharing, i think sharing the original data that is actually what we write about, would be extremely helpful for others to extract additional information to answer questions that they might have, which we didn't have and so forth.
also to check on the quality of our work, so sharing data i think is another, in a way, no brainer, but it's something that researchers don't like to do.
>> well, i'm a big fan of data sharing and the use of data.
because so much data is wasted, and so much research is then wasted.
and it's not just to reduce waste.
we have to remember it will increase the knowledge creation.
and i'm more and more interested in this knowledge creation story, because clinical trials are happening all over the world, and if you can combine those data, you get more efficient research and you can of course that's automatically reducing waste at the same time.
>> so two areas where i've used data sharing.
one is individual patient systematic reviews, where you're doing a review of all the studies in one area.
you can use the published data for that, but actually it's more effort but you can get a lot more done if you use the original data.
but that requires a standardization process, cleaning up process, so you've got common outcomes, etc.
the second use for data sharing is to ask secondary questions, so quite a lot of the research i've done has taken existing databases but asked new questions of those databases.
sometimes it's been trials that i've been involved in personally, sometimes it's getting data sets from other people to do that.
but it means it's much easier to do that than to spend the hundreds of thousands, if not sometimes, millions of dollars or pounds in getting an original data set that would have answered exactly the same question.
>> so what data sharing can achieve is the ability to answer a research question with the available data.
when you don't need to go and gather any more to actually answer the question.
so for example, a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis of all the available data may successfully answer a research question without needing to get another research grant to go and collect more data.
>> and does it help transparency then?
>> so what do you mean by does it help transparency?
>> well, does it increase the transparency of research, this sharing of data.
>> well i think so.
when you share data, you are exposing yourself to the need for external validation by another group of researchers, so they will always, they should always, seek to confirm that you're data show what you said they showed when you published them initially.
so i think you subject yourself to scrutiny.
and i think making it an expectation of researchers also means that they are very careful in the way they collect and document their research in the first place, knowing that data sharing is one day ahead of them.
