[music].
we've seen a bunch of arguments, or  perspectives, on why the fundamental  theorem of calculus should be true, but  we've also paid a high price in this  course.
we've been doing alot of things  rigorously, and we've done the squeeze  theorem.
well with the squeeze theorem in hand,  it's possible to give a rigorous formal  proof of the fundamental theorem of  calculus.
well just to remind you this is actually  what we're going to prove rigorously  here.
i'm going to start with some function  from this closed interval ab to the real  numbers.
it's a continuous function, so it's  actually integrable.
then i write down the accumulation  function big f which takes the integral  from a to x of the function little f.  and the big claim here, is that the  derivative of the accumulation function  is the function little f.  the statement of the fundamental theorem  of calculus is about a derivative, so  we're really trying to do two different  things.
i'm trying to show that a limit of a  difference quotient exists, that the  derivative exists, and then second, i'm  making a claim as to the value of that  derivative.
specifically, i want to show that this  derivative, which is defined to be the  limit as h approaches 0 of big f of x  plus h minus big f of x over h, i want to  show that this is equal to little f of x.  but to make matters a little bit easier,  i'm only going to consider the situation  when h is positive.
so i'll put a little plus there.
let's rewrite that difference of two  accumulation functions, as a single  definite integral.
well how so?
well let's just write this down.
so, this is the limit as h approaches 0  from the right of big f of x plus h,  that's the integral from a to x plus h of  f of t dt minus big f of x, which is the  integral from a to x of f of t dt all  over h.  but now this difference of integrals, can  be written as a single integral.
this is the limit as h approaches 0 from  the right, of, well, if i integrate from  a to x plus h and subtract the integral  from a to x, what's left over, is the  integral from x to x plus h.  of f of t dt all over h.  let's think about how large and how small  that integral can be.
well, first some notation.
i'll define little m of h to be the  minimum value of the function f on the  interval between x and x plus h.  and i'll define big m of h, to be the  maximum value of the function little f on  the interval, well the same interval, a  closed interval from x to x plus h.  now you might be wondering, how do i know  that there is a minimum and a maximum  value?
well, little f assumed to continuous, so  by the extreme value theorem there is a  minimum and a maximum value on a closed  interval, and these are closed intervals.
this gives us a bound on the integral.
specifically let's think about the  integral from x to x plus h of the  function little f, and since the function  little f has a maximum value of big m on  this interval, this integral is no bigger  than big m of h times h.  and conversely, all right, the minimum  value is little m of h, and that means  that this integral is at least as big as  little m of h times h.  now let's divide both sides by h, and  that doesn't effect the inequality  because i'm only really thinking about  the case when h is positive.
well that gives me little m of h is less  than or equal to the integral from x to x  plus h, of f of t dt, over h, is less  than or equal to big m of h.  now, we apply the squeeze theorem.
well how does that go?
well let's think about the limit as h  approaches 0 from the right of little m  of h.  now, remember what little m is, little m  is the minimum value of the function f on  the interval between x and x plus h.  and as h approaches 0 from the right,  this minimum value of f it's just the  value of f at the point x.  and for the same reasoning, the limit as  h approaches 0 from the right of the  maximum value, big m, the maximum value  of f on that interval is also little f of  x.  so what i've got here is this inequality,  and the left-hand side and the right-hand  side both have equal limit as h  approaches 0 from the right, and that  means that this middle term also has a  limit that exists, and equals f of x.  let me write that down.
so what i can conclude, is that the  limit, as h approaches 0 from the right,  of the integral from x to x plus h, of f  of t dt divided by h, well that's equal  to f of x.  and if i play the same game but think  about h approaching 0 from the left.
i can get that, that limit is also f of  x, and consequently, the two sided limit,  as h approaches 0, of this term, is equal  to f of x.  and so we've verified that the derivative  exist, and it's equal to f of x.
