[music].
today we're going to talk a bit more  about moving things around in graphics.
so in the first week we talked about how  to draw stuff and there we could position  objects and then like rectangles, by  giving the pixel positions.and for  example the white command and the ellipse  command.
and, and that's fine, we can do that.
and last week we talked about doing  animation, but animation with image  sequences where we're playing lots of  different images all in the same  position.
today i'm going to talk about more  powerful ways of moving objects around  beyond what you can do simply by putting  positions into the x y coordinates to say  say, a rectangle.
these techniques accord transforms, and  there are three of them.
the first transform is translate, which  is a basic movement.
not too different from what you could do  by putting an x-y position into, the  position of a rectangle, so.
and that is a command for translate and  you pass in an x and a y which is the  position you're moving whatever object  too and it's a separate command to  whatever command drawing you're doing  this.
so you can apply single translate to  multiple objects.
and group objects together and move them  around and i'll talk a little bit more in  detail about how you do that.
and the basic premise to translate an x  and a y which gives you the position for  which you'll translate.
so very similar to what we've done  before.
the second one is a scale that's getting  things bigger and smaller and that just  basically takes a number that is how much  of scaling apply.
if that number's one you're not scaling  it at all.
if it's less than one it's getting  smaller.
if it's more than one it's getting  bigger.
one quite useful thing about scale is you  can also give it two parameters which  means you can scale separately about the  x and the y.  so, you can make something wider while  making it sort of the same time, having  high x scale and a small y scale.
so the rotate command is used to spin  objects around.
and it takes an angle as its parameter.
so that's how much you want to spin it  by.
the normal way we talk about angles is in  degrees 0, 360 degrees.
but in computer programming we often work  with another way of dealing with angles  called radians.
now the units we shall explain in a  minute and you have to pass in that value  and radiance through a take command.
if you don't want to get involved in  radians, there's a very simple command  radians, that takes an angle in degrees  and converts it to radians.
so i can just put radians 90 degrees, and  it will do it all for me.
but if you want to know what radians are,  this is it.
so radians work in terms of a circle.
and we can think of an angle as cutting  out a chunk of a circle.
so, like a, a, a slice of the pie.
now, if we make the circle of radius one.
so, each of these two straight edges is  linked one.
then we can measure the angle by taking  the length of the arc, along the way just  to be certain, so that's how much of the  edge of the circle is being cut out by my  angle.
and that is a perfectly good measure of,  of, of angles, and that's what's called  radians.
a few things you need to know.
it's useful to know particular angles in  radians, if you ever use them.
the, 360 degrees is the entire  circumference of the circle, and if you  remember from school maths and the  circumference of a circle is two pi times  the radius.
because the radius is 1, the arc length  of 360 degrees is two pi.
180 degrees is half that, pi.
and 90 degrees is pi divided by two.
so that, that's a useful way.
thinking about, angles, you can use, put  values in terms of pi directly into the  rotate command.
but if you're not, if you don't want to  get involved in that, you can also the  radians command i just showed you to  convert that to degrees.
so what are transforms doing?
i said.
that transforms can apply to multiple  objects and they're independent of the  objects.
but how does a transform know to actually  move an object, if it's a separate  command from do, doing so, drawing a  rectangle or an ellipse.
well what a transform does is in a way  not move just the object, but move the  entire coordinate system.
sort of.
the, the screen.
what does that mean?
well i taught, told you a couple weeks  ago about how we can represent any point  on screen by an x and a y.  how we do that is that we need to know  which direction is x and which direction  is y and that's normally horizontal and  vertical.
we can change that.
but also, we need a starting point, we  need to know where 0, x and 0 y are and  normally, that is top left of the screen.
but what a translation does, is move  that, so that anything after the  translate.
the zero-zero point.
if i do translate 20,100, i move my  zero-zero point to 20,100.  so, if i draw an ellipse at point say,  20,30, if i've done a transform on that,  then that's 20, 30, relative to the new  zero, zero points.
so if i've transformed my 20 100s, it's  20, 30 relative to 20, 100.  which is 20 plus 20, 40, 100 plus 30,  130, relative.
to the top left of the screen.
so i'm drawing, changing the way you draw  everything.
it changes the meaning of the numbers  you're putting into your rect command and  direct command .and what that means is  that if you draw both an ellipse and a  rectangle they're both affect the same  way.
so you can draw as many shapes as you  like.
you can draw really complicated drawings,  and then put a translate in front of it,  and they'll all move together.
exactly the same thing with scale, but  this time, rather than changing the 0,0  point, you're changing how much one unit  of x or one unit of y means, so if you  scale up by two, each one unit you leave  in x counts for double.
so each time you move one in x, you're  moving two in the original screen used.
and finally the rotation, what that does  is it actually what takes the x and y  axis.
so, it changes the direction of x and the  direction of y.  so, they're pointing in different  directions.
so, if i've done this translation you're  seeing on, rotation you're seeing on the  screen then when i move across an x i'm  no longer moving just horizontal and  moving diagonal down the screen.
so these transforms are very powerful  because they give you new ways of  deforming and changing shapes.
but also because they can apply  universally to multiple shapes.
[music].
[music]
