the last thing i want to talk about today  is another powerful mathematical function  that we can use a lot enjoying, and, the,  these functions are, trigonometry which  he, probably studied in high school or  the equivalent.
and they are three functions that relate  to triangles.
relate angles and triangles.
so, if we look at the slide here, we've  got a right angled triangle.
we've got an angle a in that triangle,  and then we can label the sides.
the adjacent side, which means the side  that's next to the angle.
the opposite side, ones opposite it.
and the hypotenuse, which is the long the  long angle, the long side of the  triangle.
and this trigonometric functions are  defined in terms of these three sides.
the sine of an angle is the opposite side  to that angle divided by this hypotenuse,  the length of the opposite side divided  by the hypotenuse.
in the case of the tangent, it's also  defined the same way.
now, we're not actually going to use  these to work with angles or triangles,  and i'm going to show you something  different.
i'm actually just interested in working  with sine as a function, because it's a  really instant function.
and it's really powerful for doing  graphics animation, and i'm going to show  you what it does.
so, if we're drawing the circle, you can  that the vertical line in the circle is  the opposite of the angle in the middle  of the circle as we rotate around.
so, we can see we're drawing a circle,  and i'm tracing out the path of the  actual sine function at the same time as  drawing the circle.
and you can see, is that when the angle  is.
when it starts again, it's near zero, the  sine function zero.
it gets increasingly more negative, then  increasingly more positive.
and then it goes back down to zero again,  and it starts the way around a circle.
so, it repeated itself exactly, going  negative, going positive again.
and what's powerful about is that it's  repetitive oscillating function.
so, it goes up and down, up and down, up  and down all the time.
it looks a little bit like a wave.
in fact, it's a very important mechanism  for modeling sound wave.
sound waves act a lot like sou, sine  waves.
in fact, we can build up any sound wave  out of a whole load of si, of si, of sine  functions of different sizes and  frequencies.
so, what do we, what can we do with this?
well, before we come to that, i'll talk a  little bit more about the function.
so, this is more detail about the sine,  sine function, this is how we would write  it out.
we're using the function sine, which is  the calculates the sine of an angle, but  we're putting some other numbers in.
firstly t, we can think of this as time,  if you're working with animation with  sounds, the sine function is changing  over time.
then we've got, we multiply the result by  a.  that's called the amplitude, that's how  high it gets and also how low it gets.
that's how big the sine wave is.
in audio, that is closely related to the  volume of audio.
if you take, if you're listening to  sound.
then we have the frequency, that's how  many of the ups and downs you get in a  second, say, if you're dealing with time.
and that what i'm showing you in the  diagram here is that the distance from  one point to next identical point is one  divided by the frequency of wave.
and finally you got the phase, and that,  we can really just think of that wave's  as a starting point to the sine wave, say  how off, far off the zero point your  actual function is starting.
and you can combine together at different  sine waves at slightly different phases,  and you get an interesting effect.
say, you're starting one at point, and  you're starting another one a little bit  later, and you combine them together, and  that'll [inaudible] an interesting visual  [inaudible] effect.
and there's a lot you can with sine  waves.
so, a sine wave can be used nicely in  graphics.
it has a nice shape.
it starts to look a bit like a water  wave.
you can [inaudible], you could model  water with sine waves.
and certainly, if you add a bunch of sine  waves together, you can get quite a nice  model of it, or even landscapes.
and importantly you can use in animation.
and that's really powerful because the  great thing about sine wave is that it  oscillates.
it goes up and down repeatedly.
and that's a really useful thing for  animating moving objects.
and we'll see make work, work a lot with  sine wave [inaudible].
the other great thing for sine wave is,  as i said, it's a fantastic tool for  modeling audio functions, and i think  matthew will talk about that in a later  [music] [music]
