[MUSIC] During the second module, we are dealing
with nuclear physics and its applications. In this tenth video,
we show how a portion of the nuclear binding energy can be
transformed into heat by fusion. After having watched this video, you will know the principle of
energy release by nuclear fusion. You will know how the stars
use fusion to produce their energy and also heavy elements. And you will know the application of
this principle to future power plants. Let us return to the spectrum of
the binding energy per nucleon as a function on the mass number A. We see that there is a maximum for
A = 60 around iron. For lighter nuclei, the dependence of the binding energy on
A is much stronger than for heavier nuclei. Light nuclei are generally
less strongly bound except for the double magic nuclei,
like for instance He-4, and their binding energy
increases faster with A. One can therefore use this strong
variation of binding energy with respect to the mass number of light nuclei
as a source of energy by fusion. The yield of energy per nucleon is
greater than what is obtained by fission. But the yield per nucleus is smaller
because of the lower mass number A. In any case, the natural abundance of light nuclei
make this process interesting. In particular, the fusion of light
elements is the source of energy in stars. In principle, fusion can occur
when two light nuclei come close together enough so
that they can merge. But for these to occur,
they have to overcome the Coulomb barrier. The maximum potential is reached
when the two nuclei just touch. For a mass number of about eight, this
maximum potential is of the order of 4 MeV, so a kinetic energy of a few
MeV can overcome the barrier. One must thus heat nuclei
at very high temperature, so that they can overcome
the Coulomb barrier. To estimate this temperature, let's say that each nucleus must
have a kinetic energy of 2 MeV, which corresponds to a temperature
of 10 billion Kelvin. Typical temperatures inside the sun and other stars are of the order
of 15 million Kelvin. But the tail of the Maxwell distribution
of the Sun spectrum reaches far enough for fusion to take place. Currently in the heart of the sun, every second about 627 million
tons of hydrogen fuse and produce about 622 million tons of helium. The difference in mass of 4.3
million tons of hydrogen which is of the order of the mass of the Giza
Pyramid is equivalent to the luminous energy produced, which is about
4 10^26 Joules. The Sun will still burn for 1 million years before
running out of fuel. Ideal conditions for
nuclear fusion prevail within stars. An example is the Sun,
which weighs about 10^30 kg, mainly in the form
of ionized hydrogen. The main source of the sun's
energy is the hydrogen combustion, the proton-proton cycle
shown in this schematic. The large energy release in the third
stage is due to the fact that the helium nucleus is doubly magic and
extremely tightly bound. In total, a cycle fuses four hydrogen
nuclei to produce two positrons, two neutrinos, two photons and
24.68 MeV of kinetic energy. Positrons annihilate with
ambient electrons and so contribute to the total energy release. Photons can also interact with stellar
matter and deposit their energy. Neutrinos escape. Helium produced in the proton-proton cycle can then produce carbon
through a double fusion. For the synthesis of the elements
in stars, the CNO cycle, or so called carbon cycle, is fundamental. For stars heavier than the Sun this
is even the dominant energy source. Nitrogen and oxygen are produced in
this cyclic exothermal reaction. In addition positrons and
photons are emitted in the process. Neutrinos escape from the Sun
often without interacting. Elements up to iron are abundantly cooked inside
stars following similar cycles. Even beyond, the chain does not stop. All stable and unstable elements can be
produced under favorable conditions. One finds elements up iron and beyond
in cosmic rays from exploding stars in supernovae. Their chemical composition is however
modified by interaction with the interstellar medium. For example, the lithium-beryllium-boron group 
is enriched by spallation of heavier nuclei. In general, the abundance of odd nuclei is more
important in cosmic ray than inside stars. Our experiment, the Alpha
Magnetic Spectrometer AMS on the International Space Station
is taking data since several years and is measuring the
chemical composition of cosmic rays as function of their
energy with high precision. This will enrich our knowledge on
the origin and propagation of cosmic rays. There is a substantial effort
to achieve a man made nuclear fusion under
controlled conditions. Various fusion processes
between deuterium and tritium have been observed
in laboratory conditions. The most important one is deuterium
plus tritium which produces He-4 plus a neutron plus a 17.6 MeV of energy. The main difficulty for
a fusion reactor is to maintain the fuel long enough at a sufficiently
high temperature, so that it can penetrate the Coulomb barrier
often enough to have a sustained process. Once can contain a plasma in two ways,
by magnetic confinement, where the plasma flows in a helical orbit,
or by inertial confinement, where electromagnetic energy via lasers or
heavy ions is injected into a small
area that contains the fuel. ITER, which is the International
Thermonuclear Experiment Reactor, is the largest current project with the aim
of demonstrating fusion energy production. The reactor is being built
in the south of France. In the next two videos,
we will take you to visit the experimental Tokamak
reactor at EPFL in Lausanne and the world's oldest working
nuclear power plants in Beznau. [MUSIC]