Okay.
So, next topic is, the design of novel musical instruments,
like a metallophone. The title, we introduce, is a work of the,
work, the work we introduce here is titled Designing Custom-made Metallophone
with Concurrent Eigenanalysis. So the problem we want to
discuss in here is to, how to design an original
musical instrument. So, we pick metallophone, in this project. And as you see, it is very difficult to find a proper
shape that produce appropriate sound. You know, in order to function,
as a musical instrument, they need to produce appropriate sound. However, it's very difficult to predict
what sound they produce when they're hit by a stick. You know?
So that's a very, again, very difficult
constrained design problem. However, if you have a computer,
computer can predict the sound. And if you run it, continuously, and
rapidly, it can be fairly useful. So user edits the shape, of a bar, of
a Metallophone and the system continuously lands physical simulation to predict the
feedback or audio they produce, the tone. And they user see, hear the sound. And then, if it's too high, then it goes back to previous one, or
it's too low, go to the other side. So in this way, the user can
interactively explore, a body shape, while also searching for
aesthetically pleasing shape. So that's the idea. Let me show you a video. Okay, so here is a video. In this example, the to- [BLEEP]. >> So here, on the right side,
you see a two denominational pattern, of a Metallophone you are designing. So this is a standard, editing software. You can change the shape by dragging. And on the right side you see
that the simulation is out. Just visualize what happens if you
hit this metal bar, with your stick. If your stake is a bar, it vibrates and it produces sound, and
this is a visualization of vibration. Of course, this is exaggerated,
but you see the result. And then, in addition to it
system also produce a sound, predicting its tone, or pitch. So user can hear it, using your ears. So while hearing your sound,
you add it to save. And so that you get interesting shape. But also satisfies the desire of a sound. >> Sound of a Metallophone is calculated
by a Eigenvalue analysis [BLEEP]. As the user edits the Metallophone
shape in the left window, the system immediately
computes it's Eigenmode. Show in the right window, which tells how the Metallophone
oscillating through this space. It's tone is also updated with oral
feedback using beep sounds, and visual feedback in the status bar. [BLEEP]. Because the change of tone caused by the
shape addict is very difficult to predict, we believe designing a Metallophone
with the desire shape and tone will be possible only
with a responsive [INAUDIBLE]. >> So, by the way, this visualization
is actually also useful when you, physically assemble the Metallophone. You know Metallophone in order to, in order to make a Metallophone you
have to put this bar, onto the base. However, it's a question
as to where to fix. In this view, you can see that
this part is vibrate a lot. So this part should not be fixed. But this part and
this part is not moving at all, so this is a good place to place it down. [BLEEP]. >> Here are, the designed
Metallophone pieces by an artist. [SOUND]. And it's actual creation. [SOUND]. This shows that our analysis
successfully simulates the real world. [SOUND]. Yeah.
So, again, I think this kind of design's very,
very difficult with assimilation or existing measured. Only with continuous feedback, you can
explore many possibilities very rapidly, and you can design this kind of
interesting shape, with appropriate sound. So yeah, in other words, we,
we briefly describe the algorithm. Again, we use finite elements simulation,
so we do not go to the details. But I can give you an, a basic idea. So the problem is to find
the frequency of vibration. And here,
the method we use is Eigenmode analysis. Let me give a very,
very brief abstract explanation. So this a equation
defining this phenomenon. So, this is basically like
a very basic a spring system. So u, u, means a displacement,
or location. And then, you,
this one is acceleration or the position. Which which is proportion to the force. So this means that, the displacement is proportional to
the force, applied to the material. So this is basically the same as a spring. You know, if you spring, more, move- If you move more, than the po,
force to putting back, it gets larger. So this is a very basic and
governing equations, for the system. And then you, we represent u,
we assume oscillation, vibration motion. Which is presented as this one. So, left side is amplitude field. So amplitude is depending was X. This is a view, you see in the right
side of the window, you know, amplitude. So amount of vibration is
dependent on the location. Some part moves a lot,
some part doesn't move a lot. So this is the left side. On the right side is just sine wave,
in oscillating motion. And we put this into here. So amplitude is positional, and oscillation is depends on time,
and very yeah cyclic motion. And then if you put it here, and
then swap the equation and beautify it, you'll get it. And this is very standard
Eigen value problem. And you can solve using standard
matrix computation method. And after solving this one, this w, stays
directly associated with the frequency. So after solving this Eigen value problem,
you'll get the frequency. This is the sound we, we produce. The as a result of simulation. So here's a summary. So we presented Metallophone design
with cons, concurrent simulation and audio feedback. And in, inside the system we ran
standard Eigen mode analysis. We assume cyclic motion, and
then we tries to, to find the frequency. So to learn more. Original paper is published as
Designing Custom-made Metallophone with Concurrent Eigenanalysis. And for if you want to know more ay, analysis one possible reading is,
Dynamics of Structures. This is old text book. And also sound rendering. So simulation of sound produced,
production. Sound synthesis and sound propagation is
also hot topic in computer graphics field. So it's called sound rendering. And one interesting paper
to read is recent one, is Precomputed Acoustic Transfer. Output-Sensitive, Accurate
Sound Generation for Geometrically Complex vibration. So, these are the recommended readings,
if you want to know more. Thank you.