Our next topic is Garment design. The work we introduce here
is sensitive couture for interactive garment editing and modeling. So, the problem we want to address here, is a design of a new
novel original garment. And again, this is very difficult for
inexperienced people. So, you have 2D cross pattern, and then you have three
dimensional garment on the body. it's, what you want is
three dimensional shape. But what you have to control
is two dimensional shape. And it's very difficult to imagine
what 2D pattern you have to get to get the desired 3D shape. So, that's a problem we what to address. And our approach is the same
as the previous one. So we learn continuous concurrent
simulation behind the scene. So user continuously edits are saved
2D pattern with mass operation and the system continuously applies
physical draping across simulation. So user can directly edit to decide
while watching the clothing in the 3D configuration. Well, that's the idea. So the same as before, on the left side, you see 2D clothes patterns
the user is editing. And on the ride si, on the right side you
see clothing, putting onto the 3D body. And here the simulation is much more
accurate than the one I showed for the stuffed animal design. So you can actually predict details,
wrinkles and so on. So you can interactively
edit the 2D pattern. And the system interactively updates
clothing draping simulation results. So you can actually see
some more wrinkles here. And then you can edit the shape. So as to reduce wrinkles if necessary. So traditionally, if you want to do this,
you have to actually physically cut paper or a cloth material, stitch together and
put on the mannequin, physical mannequin. And learn draping and see the result and
then go back to the pattern and cut it again. It can be very, very long,
long time, it's very slow. And those are computer based
simulations also available. It's similar. You have to move the simulation engine
simulation and then go back to the design. That's a problem. And also, technically, it's very, challenge to run physical simulations so
rapidly. Of course there are real time rapid
cloth simulation existing already. But they, these physical simulation is for
animation. So they assume fixed clothes pattern. So clothes geometry doesn't change. And the system learns lots
of precomputation for efficient computation real-time. And then just draping learn animation. To learn simulation to create animation. However, here, the system, the user
continuously change the rest of shape. Which is,
violates assumption of standard animation, animation simulation [INAUDIBLE] so
that's a challenge we have to address. So if you do not like a wrinkle here, then
you can just interactively add dart here. And then, you can immediately see how
the resulting clothing looks more natural. Okay, so this is one example and
here's more examples. So, yeah, so design of t-shirt or garment for human character
is not actually so difficult. There are many standard
ways to design a garment. However, if you want
to design a pajama for armadillo like here,
it's a different program. No one knows how to
design a character shirt. And especially if you wanted to
buy a physically bodied garment, it's very difficult, and this kind of
design tool can be very, very useful. So previously in computer graphics,
garment of this character is a very cross mesh, there's no physics,
just a polynomial mesh. But recently, game engines are very fast,
more efficient. So we use, people starting to use
physical assimilation for these garments. Now then, it's necessary to
design physical bodied garments. So that's these are why you
need this kind of tools. So here is a comparison with a real one. The left side is a computer graphics
view in your simulation, and the right hand side is the physical
construction which we 3D printed. This kind of character and also we
physically stitched together this garment. And as you see, of course,
it is not 100 millimeter size exact match. However, you see the general
pattern like sleeve folds here and then you see full sleeve folds here. So I think this is enough for
our initial design. And we also design real
size garments using system. So this is just, just screen snapshot. We're using track to edit to save. And then you see continuously
see the 3D result. And then we print it into a larger format,
real size print. And then you put pattern into a cross and you stitch it together and
then you get a wearable results. Okay. So let me briefly describe algorithm. So, again, so oh, complete implementation
is beyond the scope of this short video. But I can briefly describe
the basic idea behind it. How to make it faster. So this is a fundamental equation. Mathematical representation of
the problem we trying solve here. So we have 2D input pattern. This is the input from the user. So user specify 2D clothes pattern. And then what we,
ha want to compute is 3D cloth shape. So, yeah. So input these XY coordinate positions or
we input clothes, and the output is XYZ position or or
when you give your body shape. So 3D cloth shape,
this is output you want to get. And then we cover function,
that represents an additional set of 2D cloth pattern input and
3D cloth shape output. And this function returns 0, if it is satisfy the physicality,
body natural shape. And this function is called the resi,
residual. So if the 3D cloth shape
is not in the desired, appropriate physically balanced shape. This zero becomes bigger, larger. And then we, we gradually,
this residual are smaller. They get more physically
realistic results. So that's the problem we try to solve. And visually,
the situation looks like this. So you have a space of varied designs. And on this view, on this axis, you have many different
two dimensional cloth patterns. So use the space for
that starts from this pattern and then moves to another pattern,
and use the edit. And for each shape,
you have a single iso surface, or space-specific region, where R becomes 0. So here, it's represented as
a single line, single cloth line. So, for the given 2D clothes pattern, we take
a look at the region where the R equals 0. And then look at the 3D shape, and
then you will get the proper 3D output. So this is a, very very simplified
view of what's going on internally. The program is at, notice here. So R, the residual is very highly
non-linear and very, very slow to compute. So, yes, so R 0 is very curved and
very complicated. When you change the pattern, you have to
recompute R, which takes too much time. So we,
what we use is a kind of a stanadard. But we use a linear appro,
approximation around the current state. So visually, it looks like this. So, this a current design and
then you compute the linear appro, approximation of this residual function. And this method called, called sensitivity
analysis in structural analysis. And then after computing linear
approximation it's kind of easy, to predict the,
compute from 2D input to 3D shape. Just by solving our linear system. Which is faster. Of course,
this is an approximation near this design. So, if you go farther away,
then it's, it becomes too different. So and your system. So single linear
appropriate is nothing now. Users who're walking far
away from the linear state. It's a difference from the real
physically realistic result gets bigger. So in that case, we compute another
approximation here right this way. And then, so we cache multiple linear approximations
occasionally and then blend them. So, in this case,
if you have two examples and if you blend these two, you get a very,
very close approximation. And this is still very fast to compute. So that's what we do in internally. So caching happens occasionally. So, the user,
the system continuously monitors. Users the dragging operation. And then when the users dragging getting
far away, you create another cache. Now you have two cache, and you move far away from these two caches,
the system will generate another. So in this way, the system incrementally,
the more and more caches. So this is a summary. So we presented garment design with
concurrent physical simulation. So we edit a 2D pattern. And the system presents
3D draping results. And then we have uprising sensite, sensiivity analysis which
is linear approximation. And those are multiple caches
before providing rapid feedback without random
simulation each time. So, to learn more the original paper
was published on Sensitive Couture for Interactive Garment Editing and Modeling. And the garment design is also a hot,
popular topic in graphics community. And one example is Virtual Garments,
A Fully Geometric Approach for Clothing Design. So, in this project,
they did not use any physical simulation. Purely geometry approach, but the, but they can rapidly generate
reasonable shapes this way. Thank you.