Our next topic is Furniture Design. So the work we introduce here is a guided
exploration of physically valid shapes for furniture design. So the motivation,
the question we want to address here is. How to design the valid furniture
like a shelf or a table. So the problem we consider
is robustness and stability. Robustness means, means do not break. This one example, is you have this kind of
shelf and you put the heavy object here, and this nail can be break, bent. So this is a problem we have to avoid and
also if you get this shape and you put this heavy weight here,
then this would probably topple. So these are the problem we want to avoid. However, in this simple case it's
easy to see but if you have a very complicated shape like this one, it's very
hard to see how to design valid furniture. So that's a problem we want addressed and
our approach is like previous systems we introduced so far, we provide
continuous structure simulation. So given our user input,
system applied physical analysis and they identify which is valid or invalid so
you can continuously be part of it. The addition to it in this work we
also provide active guidance to maintain validity. So in addition just telling you,
you are invalid or you are valid. System also guides the user
to recover validity. For example,
if the user in this invalid region, you are design is invalid and
not only telling that you are bad. It can also tell you how to fix it. So the system is continuously provide
active feedback how to go back to the valid region. So this is can be farther assist the user
in the design process, so that's the idea. And this is a special
technique we will introduce, is one annotation indicating valid range. So here, in this angle,
is not very good, not durable. So, if you put weight here,
then this nail will be broken. However, if you rotate this,
plank to vertical, then it becomes stable,
robust, it doesn't break. But if you go beyond farther then
again it's not robust, durable. So system compute valid range of
the angle you are manipulating and the visualizing another annotation so internally system runs many simulations
and then finds the valid divisions. So this is the stability analysis and
annotation. So the another is stability. So here the system identifies that
this configuration is not stable. If you physically fabricate this,
this will topple. So this is a [INAUDIBLE] but
in addition to providing this feedback, system also provides suggestions
showing valid designs. So when the user provide this, not only
telling the user this is not stable, the system generates body
candidates this way and the user just speaks long them and
you get the product design. So let me show you a video. [SOUND]. So, this is a user interface, so user design the shape,
with a simple logging operations. Yeah.
Nothing special so far. So here,
as a user start rotating this plank. If the angle is too much,
then this joint will collapse. The system profile is
not durable feedback. In addition, this not durable indicator,
the system shows a valid lane. So in this range it's okay. Yeah, so this is a visualization. So, this is much more helpful than
just telling you are not durable. You can, the system also
provides visual of feedback. Yeah, this is the body domains for
preventing toppling Our system also provides balance
in a number of positions. If this is geometric analysis but if
it's not disconnected the system suggest multiple choices to fix discontinuity And
here in this situation it will topple, so system
suggest multiple candidates to fix it. Yeah, in this case it's not durable so systems suggested lower it,
remove the lower bar or other support. Let me show you a little bit
more complicated example. Yeah, so as the design gets more and more complicated it's very hard to see where
is the bottle neck and what is a body. But this kind of system very helpful to
design physically bodied complicated shape like this one. And then we also fabricated the L one so
in this case we designed a chair [NOISE] Okay, so let me again very briefly
describe what's going on inside. So what we presenting is how to prevent
breaking and how to prevent toppling. So first one is robustness analysis. So if analyze bend force of joints. And also in prevent toppling we put, analyze force,
contact force at the ground. So let me explain one by one. So okay let's ask how to, let me just
clarify how to prevent breaking. So, suppose we have this kind of
configuration, three planks and two nails. And then we try to find the region
where the nail is placed. And then in, to do this we consider a space spanned by,
nail joint bending forces. So we compute bending force
at this nail 1 on nail 2, and then we put designs,
in the space spanned by these forces, applied bending force
up right to these sets. For example, in this configuration,
it is located here. You know there's no,
if there's no bending force, lambda 2 equal zero and
lambda 1 is somewhere here. So this is the best thing,
so compute bending force and then you put current design in this space
and after that we have bodied range. Right, if the bending force is too light,
too large, it's not durable. So bending force should be smaller
than a specific threshold. And it is end up with
a kind of box region. So if design is inside of this region
it's durable, it's safe, it's okay. But if it's outside it's
not durable it's not okay. So system needs to the suggest
going back to this region. So yeah, so
value to design is somewhere here. So the task is moving from here to there. So that's the starting point and
then what we do is something like this. So for our given current,
no spin, non durable design we gradually change a parameter and
then we check the project tree. You know, gradually change design and
then you rotate in this fourth space. And then, you see a trajectory. So if you change one thing,
you get this trajectory, if you change another thing,
you will get another trajectory. So in the system,
we test various trajectories, you know? One point we try to change the angle here,
in somewhere else, you try to position something else. We try many different variety or
operations on the check trajectory. And then, after checking trajectory, we pick the one just going with the safe
region and then show it, as a result. So internally, systems learns a lot
of physical simulation and we do not explain data here, but internally we are
giving you the same sensitivity analysis. So it is a linear approximation. So instead of computing individual one,
we are approximating so these linear single line then you can
arithmetically compute collision, safe collision faster and
so that's what's going on. Prevent toppling. So this is also very similar. So here we compute contact force between
the furniture leg and also the ground. And this force should be in one direction,
you know, force should be. And the action force comes
from floor to the furniture. If the force is under the pointed side, then it means that the for the floor and
it means that there is a problem. So in the force space diagram
looks like this, so if. So contact force should
be always positive. You know?
Contact force needs, needs to be positive, if negative,
it means that the contact becomes fall apart; which means the furniture
topples over, stumbles. So in, the task is to move the design
back into this valid region. So again, the same thing. You compute the trajectory by
checking many variations and then to identify and find the good one. Ok, so little bit, maybe too fast but
that's a brief summary. So, we presented furniture design with
durability, and stability analysis. So system continously checks whether
current design stable or durable. And in addition to that, system actively guide the user
to go back to the valid region. So to do so, internally, we apply joint
force analysis in the force space. So in the case of durability we compute
bending force and the force of stability we compute the contact force and then we
try to move back into the safe region. So to learn more, original paper was
published as Guided Exploration of Physically Valid Shapes for
Furniture Design. And the physically valid design
of objects is popular for topic in this entry, and a couple of
interesting works appear in this entry. And one is Make it stand: Balancing
shapes for 3D fabrication. So this technique takes single 3D object
and then tries to adjust the shapes so that it actually stands, not topple. So this is automatic optimization and
the another is, Stress relief: Improving structural
strength of 3D printable objects. So this one takes 3D object and print it. However it also analyzes weakest
bottle neck for example, this neck can easily break, so system identifies it,
and then make it more stronger. So this kind of condition
is heavily explored. Our work is different because we try to
guide the user through the modeling phase. That's it, thank you.