[MUSIC] Thus far, we have touched on FINRA
expectations regarding data sharing as well as some of the data management
practices that can help researchers share their data efficiently. This includes following
metadata standards, creating documentation and
following quality assurance protocols. Now, we will delve more deeply into
the topic of sharing digital data. By the end of this lesson, you will be able to identify some
of the benefits of sharing data. You will also be able to identify
some of the challenges and obstacles to data sharing. And finally, you will recognize the
importance and elements of data citations. Let's consider the key players
when it comes to data sharing. First, there is the data creator or
producer. This is the person or entity who is
making the data available to share. There is also the person who reuses
the data or the secondary data user. Finally, there is the data repository. This is where the data creator
makes the data available. A data repository plays a key role
in enhancing the discovery and reuse of the data. And ideally,
creating a formal data citation. So what are some of
the benefits of data sharing? As we discussed previously,
funders are encouraging. And in some cases, requiring researcher
to make their data available for sharing to support transparency and
openness and maximize funders return on investment. The specific benefits of data sharing to
the research community are numerous and discussed in much of the literature. We will now look at the top ten
benefits of sharing research data. For more information on data sharing
literature, check out the resources for this module. Number one, sharing data reinforces
open scientific inquiry. Making data openly available
decreases the potential for disagreements among researchers and
allows scientific inquiry to progress unimpeded to the benefit
of the entire research community. Number two,
sharing data supports the verification and replication of original results. By making data available, data can be used
to verify or replicate published results. Verification can bolster the original
results or it can expose errors. Either outcome helps strengthen and protect the integrity of
the scientific record. Number three, sharing data promotes
new research and allows for the testing of new or alternative methods. While data creators may have
one research question in mind, the same data may be reused to answer
new and innovative research questions. Number four, sharing data encourages
collaboration and multiple perspectives. Sharing data can begin conversations
between researchers across disciplines. This could lead to cross-disciplinary
collaborations or the exchange of knowledge across fields that could result
in new innovative research approaches. Number five, sharing data provides
important teaching resources. Data are extremely valuable
pedagogical tools. Instructors may use data
in analytical exercises or students may model their own work
after high-quality data examples. Data can also provide students with
firsthand experience in verifying results. Number six, sharing data reduces costs by avoiding
duplicate data collection efforts. Avoiding unintended duplicate data
collections saves both respondents and researchers valuable time and resources
and freeze up researcher funds for other projects. Number seven, sharing data protects
against faulty or fraudulent data. Over the past few years, there have been multiple stories in
the news about misconduct in research. Sharing data promotes transparency and
accountability, which lessens the potential for purposeful
falsification or distortion of data. It also allows reusers to
detect unintentional errors. And finally, the expectation that
others may be verifying data should encourage greater
care in original analyses. Number eight,
sharing data enhances the visibility and overall impact of research projects. Making research data available
within a data repository can increase the visibility of researched
products and increase the impact of a project by encouraging
secondary analysis of the data. Scholars have also found a significant
association between publishing data and increased citation rates. In the end, sharing data does not only
benefit the broader research community, but can also produce potential
career benefits for researchers. Number nine, sharing data
preserves data for future use. If a researcher makes their data available
for sharing within a data repository, then they can be sure that
the data will be available and understandable for the long-term for
their own and others use. Number ten, sharing data helps
the broader community and individual researchers do better research. By sharing data, researchers
support both their own research and the broader research community resulting
in science that is more accurate, more open, more knowledgeable and
has more resources at its disposal. [MUSIC]