[MUSIC] We have just covered a lot
of benefits of sharing data. But there are also multiple challenges,
or obstacles that can effect researchers ability or
willingness to share their data. Let's now go over the top five of several
known challenges to data sharing. Number one, it takes time and
effort to make data shareable. Making data publicly available
can be a labor intensive and time consuming process. In a 2011 survey of researchers,
over 50% sited insufficient time. And 40% sited lack of funding, as their
reasons for not making data available. Number 2, perceived risks from
loss of control of the data. By sharing data, researchers may believe they're
relinquishing control over their data. This can raise concerns
that they may be scooped or another researcher could
discover errors in their data, could reach contradictory conclusions
using the data, or misuse the data. Number 3, data contained confidential or
sensitive information. Data collected from human subjects may
contain protected health information, or personally identifiable information,
and researchers are responsible for protecting this sensitive data. In some cases,
de-identifying data may be an option, but this can also be a labor
intensive process. In other cases,
removing certain identifiable information could negatively effect the usability
of the data for secondary analysis. Number four, the ownership of the data
may be unclear or problematic. Researchers must also consider if they
even have the right to share the data. In the case of collaborative projects, they will want to discuss
the data with their partners. In some cases, for instance,
if the data were proprietary or funded by private entities, researchers
may not even be permitted to share the data due to intellectual property or
copyright concerns. Number five, a lack of incentives for
sharing data. And last but not least, in many ways
the current academic culture lacks the incentive structure to properly
reward researchers who share their data. Researchers gain career advancement
through publishing articles in books often based on data. However, there's currently not
a similar reward system for publishing the data themselves. There are no easy answers to overcome
these challenges as Christine Borgman states, "Sharing research data is
an intricate and difficult problem. In other words, a conundrum." However,
one other challenge to sharing data that researchers have
cited is a lack of experience and knowledge of data management. By applying the data management practices
taught in this MOOC, researchers and other information professionals will
have more tools in their toolbox for successfully preparing data to share
in an efficient and effective manner. [MUSIC]