[MUSIC] During this fourth module, we go into details about the properties
of electromagnetic interaction. In this third video,
we discussed the phenomenon of spin and its consequences for
electromagnetic interactions. After following this video, you will know
spin as a typical quantum observable, and its measurable consequences and the
functional principle of a Penning trap. We have seen in video 1.1 that
the matter particles known up to now are all fermions with spin one-half. And the particles carrying the
forces are spin one bosons. The only elementary scalar boson
observed to date is the Higgs boson. It is therefore inevitable that we
discuss date spin in more depths. We will not do that
with a formal approach, instead we discuss only
the consequences of spin. Spin is a typical quantum observable
which has no classical equivalent. It is an intrinsic degree of freedom
corresponding to an angular momentum manifesting itself by a magnetic moment. There's no movement associated to either
of these moments, let alone a rotation. This is evident because spin is
a property of pointlike particles. We will nevertheless use a classical
analogy laid out on this slide. For a particle with charge q and mass m,
the magnetic moment µ is related to the angular momentum L by
µ = q/(2m) L. This is easy to see for
a particle traveling on a circle of radius r. Its magnetic moment is the product of
the current caused by the motion and the surface included in the path. The current can be expressed using
charge and angular velocity, the magnetic moment is thus
proportionate to the angular momentum. The proportionality factor is
simply q/(2m). It is plausible that
an intrinsic angular momentum would cause an analogous magnetic moment. A new proportionality constant comes in,
it is called the gyromagnetic ratio g. It's value depends on the internal
structure of the particle. For a pointlike fermion,
such as the electron, muon or tau, the spin is one-half,
the charge is -e, so µ is equal to -ge/(4m). A QED calculation to first order
gives g simply equal to two. The classical experiment to measure
g uses an electron trapped in an electromagnetic bottle
called a Penning Trap. A very good description is available
in the article by Ekstrom and Wineland, in Scientific American,
that is quoted on the bottom of this page. The system resembles a macroscopic atom where the nucleus is
replaced by an external field. The electron circulates
in a magnetic field which is pretty much homogeneous except
for the focusing component generated by a ferromagnetic nickel
ring in the equatorial plane. An electric field counteracts excursions
along the axis of the magnetic field. It is generated by a ring electrode and
two cap electrodes. We calculate the energy levels
of such a system in video 4.3a. The result which is given here,
neglecting the focusing effects of the ring the caps, is relatively simple. The first term in blue corresponds to
a free movement in the z direction. This movement is constraint by
the focusing components we have neglected. And they caused the axial oscillation. The two terms in red correspond to
harmonic oscillator in the equatorial plane with energy
eigenvalues which are omega times (n+1/2) for
n equal to zero, one, two and so on. Adding the magnetic moment of the spin µ_s,
the last term in green is obtained. The two directions of spin, 
s_z equal plus one-half and minus one-half, are therefore separated
by the same energy difference omega as the main levels, provided that
g is exactly equal to two. The energy levels for spin parallel and anti-parallel to z would then be
displaced by exactly one step omega. This degeneracy does not exist if
the value of g differs from two. The levels are then slightly displaced
by a frequency shift delta omega equal to omega times (g-2)/2, which can be measured with impressive
accuracy using a Penning trap. The principle of the measurement is
shown here by its electrical analogue. In an empty trap, the three
electrodes form a capacitance network that transmits the AC signal generated
on top to the detector on the bottom. The trapped electron introduces
an additional capacitance-inductance in the circuit. The amplitude of the transmitting signal
as a function of frequency thus indicates the number of electrons in the device. And the frequency shift delta
omega which determines the deviation of g from two. The figure on the left shows the detected
signal as a function of time at the well adjusted frequency. Each major step corresponds to
the loss of one electron in the trap. The right figure shows the frequency shift
delta omega as a function of time. It's too minima indicate
the two directions of spin. Also indicated are the much larger
shifts due to a change in orbit. The precidion of the experimental
result is amazing. You see the value obtained in
blue on the bottom of the page. The value in bracket indicates
the measurement error which applies to the 13th and
14th decimal places. Comparison of this value to
electromagnetic theory requires a calculation of the same quantity to
10th order in the pertubation expansion. One finds good agreement
between measurement and theory even at this unrivalled precision. The measurement also gives us one of the
most precise values of the fine structure constant alpha equals e^2/(4π). In the next video, Mercedes
will discuss Compton scattering, the elastic scattering of
a photon off an electron. [SOUND]